src/pages/guides/platform-guide/indicative-free-trial/index.md, before:

---
title: Indicative Free Trial
order: 13
---

Sign up for a free trial version of Indicative and send your mParticle data to Indicative with just a few steps. You'll have a fully functional Indicative project.

1. In the mParticle navigation bar, click **Indicative**. 
   
   ![mParticle left navigation menu for Indicative free trial](/images/indicative/free-trial1.png)

2. In the landing page, click **Sign up for a Free Trial**.
      
   ![Indicative free trial signup screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial2.png)

3. Accept the terms of service.
      
   ![terms of service screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial3.png)

4. The Indicative Connections Summary page displays:
   
   ![Indicative free trial summary page screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial4.png)

   You see different information depending on your role. You can accept the defaults (skip to step 8), or make some edits (steps 5-7).

5. **Selected Inputs**, regardless of role 
   
   You can see that all inputs are selected by default. To change this, click **Edit** to reach the mParticle connection process.  You can also change these inputs after completing setup, using the standard connection process. Connections between the selected inputs and Indicative will be created.

6. **Selected Teammates**
    
   * If you have the User or Support Access role, you'll be notified that all Admins are automatically added as teammates. 
   * If you are an Admin, you see a dialog that all mParticle users in the account are added as teammates to your Indicative project. You can deselect users who are not Admins.

7. Whether a 30 day replay of data will be launched. Leave this option selected to ensure you have data available.  
   
8.  Click **Send Data**. After a brief pause, you'll see the Congratulations banner indicating your trial has been created.

    ![Success page for Indicative free trial screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial5.png)

9. Click **Launch Indicative** to launch your Indicative project. Indicative creates both a production and development project for you. While the projects are being created, you'll see a helpful hints dialog that mentions the production project.

   ![Helpful hints page for Indicative free trial screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial6.png)

   When the project is ready, you'll see the Indicative UI in a new browser window at `analytics.mparticle.com`. Now you can begin working in Indicative. If you click the round projects button in the left navigation (TH in this example), you'll see both your production and development projects listed.

   ![Indicative project page screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial7.png)

   You can log into your Indicative project directly from https://analytics.mparticle.com from now on.

If you'd like to add more workspaces to a project, simply log into mParticle and run the setup wizard again by clicking **Indicative**. You'll be shown a new option to add a workspace in the Indicative Connections Summary page (step 4). 

   ![Add more workspaces screenshot](/images/indicative/workspace-creation.png)

Add workspaces one at a time. Your trial begins when the setup for the first workspace is completed.

Commit message:

Indicative post launch (#1965)
* Indicative post launch tweaks

fix template file for deprecated module

* add link to Indicative help center

* fix reference in event

* fix deprecated audience link

src/pages/guides/platform-guide/indicative-free-trial/index.md, after:

---
title: Indicative Free Trial
order: 13
---

Sign up for a free trial version of Indicative and send your mParticle data to Indicative with just a few steps. You'll have a fully functional Indicative project.

1. In the mParticle navigation bar, click **Indicative**. 
   
   ![mParticle left navigation menu for Indicative free trial](/images/indicative/free-trial1.png)

2. In the landing page, click **Sign up for a Free Trial**.
      
   ![Indicative free trial signup screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial2.png)

3. Accept the terms of service.
      
   ![terms of service screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial3.png)

4. The Indicative Connections Summary page displays:
   
   ![Indicative free trial summary page screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial4.png)

   You see different information depending on your role. You can accept the defaults (skip to step 8), or make some edits (steps 5-7).

5. **Selected Inputs**, regardless of role 
   
   You can see that all inputs are selected by default. To change this, click **Edit** to reach the mParticle connection process.  You can also change these inputs after completing setup, using the standard connection process. Connections between the selected inputs and Indicative will be created.

6. **Selected Teammates**
    
   * If you have the User or Support Access role, you'll be notified that all Admins are automatically added as teammates. 
   * If you are an Admin, you see a dialog that all mParticle users in the account are added as teammates to your Indicative project. You can deselect users who are not Admins.

7. Whether a 30 day replay of data will be launched. Leave this option selected to ensure you have data available.  
   
8.  Click **Send Data**. After a brief pause, you'll see the Congratulations banner indicating your trial has been created.

    ![Success page for Indicative free trial screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial5.png)

9. Click **Launch Indicative** to launch your Indicative project. Indicative creates both a production and development project for you. While the projects are being created, you'll see a helpful hints dialog that mentions the production project.

   ![Helpful hints page for Indicative free trial screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial6.png)

   When the project is ready, you'll see the Indicative UI in a new browser window at `analytics.mparticle.com`. Now you can begin working in Indicative. If you click the round projects button in the left navigation (TH in this example), you'll see both your production and development projects listed.

   ![Indicative project page screenshot](/images/indicative/free-trial7.png)

   You can log into your Indicative project directly from https://analytics.mparticle.com from now on.

If you'd like to add more workspaces to a project, simply log into mParticle and run the setup wizard again by clicking **Indicative**. You'll be shown a new option to add a workspace in the Indicative Connections Summary page (step 4). 

   ![Add more workspaces screenshot](/images/indicative/workspace-creation.png)

Add workspaces one at a time. Your trial begins when the setup for the first workspace is completed.  To learn about the Indicative analytics platform, go to the [Indicative Help Center](https://support.indicative.com).
