src/pages/integrations/apptimize/event/index.md, before:

---
title: Event
---

Apptimize allows iOS and Android teams to make real-time updates to the native app experience and data-driven product decisions. Teams can A/B test user flows, control feature rollouts, make instant UI changes, and more.

## Supported Features

A/B Testing

## Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle’s integration with Apptimize, you will need your App Key which can be found on your Apptimize [settings](https://apptimize.com/admin/settings/apps) page. 

## Apptimize Kit Integration

mParticle's Apptimize integration requires that you add the Apptimize kit to your iOS or Android app, and the mParticle SDK will initialize and automatically map mParticle method calls directly onto Apptimize method calls. This approach means that **every feature of the Apptimize SDKs are supported**, as if the app had integrated Apptimize directly. The source code for each kit is available if you would like to learn exactly how the method mapping occurs:

- [iOS](https://github.com/mparticle-integrations/mparticle-apple-integration-apptimize)
- [Android](https://github.com/mparticle-integrations/mparticle-android-integration-apptimize)

Add the Apptimize Kit to your iOS or Android app. For the Android kit, you must also add Aptimize's Maven repository to your `build.gradle`. See the Cocoapods and Gradle examples below, and reference the [Apple SDK](https://github.com/mParticle/mparticle-apple-sdk) and [Android SDK](https://github.com/mParticle/mparticle-android-sdk) GitHub pages to read more about kits.

:::code-selector-block
~~~objectivec
//Sample Podfile
target '<Your Target>' do
    pod 'mParticle-Apptimize', '~> 6'
end
~~~

~~~java
//Sample build.gradle
repositories {
    maven {
        url 'http://maven.apptimize.com/artifactory/repo'
    }
}
dependencies {
    compile ('com.mparticle:android-apptimize-kit:4.+')
}
~~~   
:::

## Configuration Settings

| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value  | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| App Key | `string` | <unset> | You can find your App Key on the Apptimize settings page |
| Apptimize EU Data Center | `bool` | False | If enabled, the SDK will use endpoints associated with Apptimize European Data Center, otherwise data will be sent and received from the Default Data Center. If you are unsure which data center you are on, please reach out to support@apptimize.com |


## Connection Settings

| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value | Platform | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---
| Collect experiment data | `bool` | False | All| Collect experiment data from the Apptimize SDK as custom events and user attributes. |

Commit message:

Kit-only note for CA (#1711)
* kit only note for CA

* Update src/pages/guides/platform-guide/calculated-attributes/reference/index.md

src/pages/integrations/apptimize/event/index.md, after:

---
title: Event
---

Apptimize allows iOS and Android teams to make real-time updates to the native app experience and data-driven product decisions. Teams can A/B test user flows, control feature rollouts, make instant UI changes, and more.

## Supported Features

A/B Testing

## Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle’s integration with Apptimize, you will need your App Key which can be found on your Apptimize [settings](https://apptimize.com/admin/settings/apps) page. 

## Apptimize Kit Integration

mParticle's Apptimize integration requires that you add the Apptimize kit to your iOS or Android app, and the mParticle SDK will initialize and automatically map mParticle method calls directly onto Apptimize method calls. This approach means:

* Every feature of the Apptimize SDKs is supported, as if the app had integrated Apptimize directly. 
* This kit-only integration solely supports client-side data forwarding.

The source code for each kit is available if you would like to learn exactly how the method mapping occurs:

- [iOS](https://github.com/mparticle-integrations/mparticle-apple-integration-apptimize)
- [Android](https://github.com/mparticle-integrations/mparticle-android-integration-apptimize)

Add the Apptimize Kit to your iOS or Android app. For the Android kit, you must also add Aptimize's Maven repository to your `build.gradle`. See the Cocoapods and Gradle examples below, and reference the [Apple SDK](https://github.com/mParticle/mparticle-apple-sdk) and [Android SDK](https://github.com/mParticle/mparticle-android-sdk) GitHub pages to read more about kits.

:::code-selector-block
~~~objectivec
//Sample Podfile
target '<Your Target>' do
    pod 'mParticle-Apptimize', '~> 6'
end
~~~

~~~java
//Sample build.gradle
repositories {
    maven {
        url 'http://maven.apptimize.com/artifactory/repo'
    }
}
dependencies {
    compile ('com.mparticle:android-apptimize-kit:4.+')
}
~~~   
:::

## Configuration Settings

| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value  | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| App Key | `string` | <unset> | You can find your App Key on the Apptimize settings page |
| Apptimize EU Data Center | `bool` | False | If enabled, the SDK will use endpoints associated with Apptimize European Data Center, otherwise data will be sent and received from the Default Data Center. If you are unsure which data center you are on, please reach out to support@apptimize.com |


## Connection Settings

| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value | Platform | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---
| Collect experiment data | `bool` | False | All| Collect experiment data from the Apptimize SDK as custom events and user attributes. |
