src/pages/integrations/amazon-redshift/data-warehouse/index.md, before:

---
title: Data Warehouse
---

<aside>
Please note that as of 1/29/2020 we expanded the range of <a href="https://api.mparticle.com/ip-ranges">IP addresses</a> used to forward customer data for Redshift. Please ensure that your whitelist is up-to-date.
</aside>

mParticle's Data Warehouse integration with Amazon Redshift forwards all your incoming data to a Redshift cluster, allowing you to query the raw data directly. 

The integration performs the following tasks in your Redshift cluster:

1. Creates a table for each custom app event name and each eCommerce event name with a volume above a defined threshold. Less common events are recorded in a single table, labeled `otherevents`.

2. Adds new columns to tables when new events or user attributes are received.

3. Creates a view unioning all tables within each schema, and a view in the PUBLIC schema that unions the views of all schema. Updates these views as new tables are created.

4. If enabled, performs data hygeine on your cluster every 24 hours to purge expired data and [run `vacuum` and `analyze` commands](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/tutorial-loading-data-vacuum.html).

By default, the integration begins loading current data into Redshift from the time it is enabled. You can work with your mParticle Customer Service Manager to load historical data.

## Enable the Integration

### Redshift Database Setup

#### 1. Create a Database and Schema

[Create your Redshift Database](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_CREATE_DATABASE.html). The database should be in the same region as your mParticle [pod](/developers/data-localization#logging-into-mparticle). For example, if your mParticle pod is `US1` or `US2`, create your Redshift database in `us_east-1`. Choosing a different region increases latency between mParticle and Redshift.

Within your database, [create a schema](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_CREATE_SCHEMA.html) to store your data.

#### 2. Create groups and users to manage permissions

Once your database is ready, you need to create groups with permissions to read and write data to the database.

~~~sql
create group readwritegroup; 
create group readonlygroup;

grant all on schema your_schema_name to group readwritegroup;
~~~

Be sure to replace `your_schema_name` with your own name.

mParticle uses these groups to grant permissions for new tables it creates in the database. You must use the names `readwritegroup` and `readonlygroup`. You can also use these groups to control permissions for mParticle data in Redshift.

Create a user in each group. mParticle uses the `dataloader` user to create tables and write to the schema. The `readonlyuser` is used to run queries from the mParticle dashboard.

~~~sql
create user dataloader in group readwritegroup password 'Aabcde123!';

create user readonlyuser in group readonlygroup password 'Abcde123!';
~~~

### mParticle Setup

After adding Amazon Redshift from the integrations Directory, you can find the settings UI at **Setup > Data Warehouse**.

![](/images/redshift-setup.png)

From the main page for your Redshift configuration, select the **Settings** tab to provide the necessary settings to get your Redshift integration working.

To forward data subject erasure requests to Amazon Redshift, set the Forwarding Status toggle to Active and select **I understand** after reading the disclaimer. Once the status has been set to Active, erasure requests are sent to Amazon Redshift immediately upon being received by mParticle. 

<aside>
The forwarding behavior for data subject erasure requests to Amazon Redshift is different than the behavior of other event integrations. With Amazon Redshift, the forwarding status reported by mParticle also represents the fulfillment status of the request, since mParticle knows immediately if the erasure request was processed successfully or not.
</aside>

![](/images/redshift-settings-042019.png)

### Configuration Settings
| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value  | Description |
| ---|---|---|---|
| Cluster Endpoint | `string` | | Endpoint string shown on Configuration tab on your Redshift Dashboard. |
| Port | `number` | 5439 | Open port for your cluster. You can find this on the details page for your cluster in Redshift. |
| Database | `string` | | The name of the database where you want to store mParticle Data. |
| Read & Write User ID | `string` | | User ID for the `dataloader` user you created in your Redshift setup. These credentials will be used to manage the schema and load data. |
| Read & Write Password | `string` | | The password for the `dataloader` user. |
| Read Only User ID | `string` | | User ID for the `readonlyuser` user you created in your Redshift setup. These credentials will be used when running queries from the mParticle UI. |
| Read & Write Password | `string` | | The password for the `readonlyuser` user. |
| Redshift Schema Name | `string` | | Name of an existing schema where you want to store mParticle data. |
| Events Threshold | `number` | 10000 | The number of times a custom or commerce event name must be received in 30 day period for mParticle to create a dedicated table for that event.
| Delay Between Loading Sessions in Minutes |`number` | 15 | Allows you to adjust how often you want to load data into the data warehouse. Note that the minimum time is 1 minute and the maximum time is 24 hours (60 minutes x 24).|
| Send user attribute columns | `bool` | `true` | If enabled, individual columns are created for each user attribute |
| Store device stamp | `bool` | false | Store device application stamp in the mParticleDeviceID column. Note that this change does not apply retroactively to tables that have already been created. Data deletion and a replay will be needed in order for existing tables to include this column. |
| Hygiene Permissions | `bool` | true | If enabled, every 24 hours, mParticle will purge data over a certain age and perform vacuum and analyze commands on your database. |
| Number of Days | `number` | 90 | If Data Hygiene is enabled, this is the age in days past which data is purged.

Once your Data Warehose integration is configured, connect individual inputs to the Amazon Redshift output from the **Connections** page. You must connect every input you want to store data for.

### Connection Settings
| Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Platform | Description |
| ---|---|---|---|---|
| Redshift Table Name | `string` | | Out of Band | Table name for this partner feed. If not set, the partner name will be used.  Only applicable to feeds inputs, no effect on apps inputs. If "Split Partner Feed Data by Event Name" checkbox is enabled, this setting is not used. |
| Split Partner Feed Data by Event Name | `boolean` | False | Out of Band | If enabled, split partner feed data by event name. Otherwise load data into the same table. |
| Send Batches without Events | `boolean` | True | All | If enabled, an event batch that contains no events will be forwarded. |

<!--
### Optional Setup

Optionally, you may give mParticle permission to perform "Describe-Clusters" and "Describe-Events" actions on your Redshift cluster so that mParticle services can determine whether your cluster is unavailable due to planned maintenance or actual errors. It also allows mParticle to show your cluster status in the mParticle Dashboard. To grant mParticle permissions for "Describe-Clusters" and "Describe-Events":

1. In IAM create a policy, e.g. "policy-mParticle-Redshift-Access" with the following definition.
    ~~~json
      {
          "Version": "2012-10-17",
          "Statement": [
              {
                  "Sid": "Stmt1452877557000",
                  "Effect": "Allow",
                  "Action": [
                      "redshift:DescribeClusters",
                      "redshift:DescribeEvents"
                  ],
                  "Resource": "*"
              }
          ]
      }
    ~~~
2. In IAM create a Role named `"role-mParticle-Redshift-Access"`. You must use this exact name. Under **Select Role Type**, choose "Role for Cross-Account Access", and select "Allows IAM users from a 3rd party AWS account to access this account".
3. Enter the mParticle account ID and external ID shown on mParticle's Redshift Configuration page. 
4. Attach the policy created above.
5. Enter your AWS account ID on mParticle's Redshift Configuration page.
-->

## Data Schema

Each common custom app event name and eCommerce event name have their own table in Redshift, and all other event names (e.g., session-start, session-end) are stored in a single "otherevents" table. The naming conversion of the table names are as follows.

- A custom app event name will have a table named **event\_[event type]\_[event name]**. For example, a custom app event of event type *Navigation* named *SignUp* will have a table named *event_navigation_signup*.
- An eCommerce event name will have a table named **ecomm\_[event name]**.
- Consent events have tables named **consent_given** and **consent_rejected**
- All other events are stored in a table named **otherevents**.

mParticle also creates two views, which can be used to get aggregated views of your app data.
- Under each schema, a view called *eventsview* that unions all tables under the schema.
- Under the "public" schema, a view called *eventsview* that unions all *eventsview* views from all schema in the database.

### Common Columns

Each table has the following common columns.

| Column Name | Data Type  | Description |
|---|---|---|
|AppId|int| mParticle app Id |
|AppPlatformId|int| mParticle AppPlatformId, e.g., Google Now app has iOS platform and Android platform, and each platform has an unique mParticle AppPlatformId |
|AppName|varchar(255)| App name |
|AppVersion|varchar(255)| App version |
|PackageName|varchar(255)| App package name |
|AppArchitecture|varchar(255)| App architecture |
|IsPirated|bool| Is the device pirated? |
|ApplicationBuildNumber|varchar(255)| Application build number |
|IsDebugSigning|bool| Is the app debug signing? |
|UpgradeDate|bigint| App upgrade timestamp |
|AppEnvironment|varchar(255)| App environment, debug or production |
|InstallReferrer|varchar(255)| Install referrer |
|Brand|varchar(255)| Device brand |
|Product|varchar(255)| Device product |
|DeviceName|varchar(255)| Device name |
|DeviceUdid|varchar(255)| Device UDID |
|Manufacturer|varchar(255)| Device manufacturer |
|Platform|varchar(255)| Device platform |
|OSVersion|varchar(255)| Device OS version |
|DeviceModel|varchar(255)| Device model |
|LocaleCountry|varchar(255)| Device's locale country |
|LocaleLanguage|varchar(255)| Device's locale language |
|NetworkCountry|varchar(255)| Network country |
|NetworkCarrier|varchar(255)| Network carrier name |
|ScreenHeight|int| Device's screen height |
|ScreenWidth|int| Device's screen width |
|ScreenDpi|int| Device's screen dpi |
|DeviceUtcOffset|int| Device UTC offset |
|OsVersionInt|int| Android OS version int |
|Jailbroken|varchar(255)| Device's jailbroken status |
|IDFA|varchar(255)| iOS IDFA |
|GoogleAID|varchar(255)| Android Google Advertising ID |
|Architecture|varchar(255)| Device architecture |
|IsTablet|bool| Is the device a tablet? |
|VendorIdentifier|varchar(255)| iOS vendor identifier |
|Pushtoken|varchar(255)| Push token |
|AttributionServiceProvider|varchar(255)| Attribution service provider name |
|AttributionPublisher|varchar(255)| Attributed publisher name |
|AttributionCampaign|varchar(255)| Attributed campaign name |
|mParticleUserId|bigint| UserId assigned by mParticle |
|CustomerId|varchar(255)| User's customerID, usually this is the unique userId in your system |
|FacebookId|varchar(255)| User's Facebook user Id |
|TwitterId|varchar(255)| User's Twitter ID |
|GoogleUserId|varchar(255)| User's Google ID |
|MicrosoftUserId|varchar(255)| User's Microsoft ID |
|YahooUserId|varchar(255)| User's Yahoo ID |
|Email|varchar(255)| User's email |
|OtherUserId|varchar(255)| "Other" type user identity |
|IsDebug|bool| True for debug environment and false for production environment |
|BatchId|bigint| A unique ID of the batch |
|BatchTimestamp|bigint| Batch timestamp |
|SdkVersion|varchar(255)| mParticle SDK version |
|ClientIp|varchar(20)| Client IP address |
|ClientIpV6 | varchar(45) | Client IP address (compatible with v6) |
|GeoLookupInfo|varchar(1024)| Geo lookup information |
|entrypointtype|smallint| Type of incoming data, Type of incoming data, 1 means from SDK and 128 means from S2S |
|CountryCode|varchar(255)| Country code |
|CityName|varchar(255)| City name |
|PostalCode|varchar(255)| Postal code |
|RegionCode|varchar(255)| Geo region code |
|Latitude|double| Geo latitude |
|Longitude|double| Geo longitude |
|Accuracy|double| Geo accuracy |
|AudienceMembership|varchar(2048)| A array of mParticle segment ID's the user was a member of at the time of the event |
|SessionId|bigint| A unique ID of the session |
|SessionStartTimestamp|bigint| Session start timestamp |
|EventId|bigint| A unique ID of the event |
|EventTimestamp|bigint| Event timestamp |
|MessageTypeId|int| Message Type Id<br> 1 = Session Start<br>   2 = Session End<br>  3 = Screen View<br>  4 = App Event<br>  5 = Crash Report<br>   6 = Opt Out<br>  7 = First Run<br>  8 = PreAttribution<br>   9 = Push Registration<br>  10 = Application State Transition<br>  11 = Push Message<br>  12 = Network Performance<br>   13 = Breadcrumb<br>  14 = Profile<br>   15 = Push Reaction<br>   16 = Commerce Event<br>  17 = UserAttributeChange<br>   18 = UserIdentityChange<br>  19 = Uninstall |
|EventStartTimestamp|bigint| Event start timestamp |
|EventDate|date| Event date. Sort key |
|EventHour|datetime| Event hour. Sort key |
|EventName|varchar(255)| Event name |
|EventTypeId|int| Event type Id |
|EventLength|bigint| How long did the event take? Represents session length in milliseconds on session end events |
|EventLtvValue|double| Monetary value extracted from the event |
|DataConnectionType|varchar(255)| Data connection type |
|ExceptionHandled|bool| Handled exception or crash |
|IsFirstRunEvent|bool| Is this a first run event? |
|FirstSeenTimestamp|bigint| Timestamp of the first event on this user |
|IsUpgradeEvent|bool| Is this an app upgrade event? |
|SuccessfullyClosed|bool| Is the last session successfully closed? Will be false if app is forcefully killed |
|ApplicationTransitionTypeId|smallint| Application Transition TypeId. AppInit = 1<br> AppExit = 2<br> AppBackground = 3<br> AppForeground = 4 |
|eventcustomflags|varchar(2048)| Event custom flags |
|EventAttributes|varchar(10240)| A JSON string that contains key/value pairs of event attribute names and values |
|UserAttributes|varchar(10240)| A JSON string that contains key/value pairs of user attribute names and values |

### eCommerce Only Columns

| Column Name | Data Type  | Description |
|---|---|---|
|ProductActionTypeId|smallint| eCommerce Product Action Type Id<br> 0 = unknown<br> 1 = add_to_cart<br> 2 = remove_from_cart<br> 3 = checkout<br> 4 = checkout_option<br> 5 = click<br> 6 = view_detail<br> 7 = purchase<br> 8 = refund<br> 9 = add_to_wishlist<br> 10 = remove_from_wishlist |
|EcommerceScreenName|varchar(50)| eCommerce screen name |
|EcommerceIsNonInteractive|bool| Is eCommerce action interactive? |
|PromotionActionTypeId|smallint| Promotion Action Type Id<br> 0 = unknown<br> 1 = view<br> 2 = click |
|ProductAction|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing product action details |
|PromotionAction|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing promotion action details |
|ProductImpressions|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing product impressions |
|ShoppingCart|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing shopping cart info |

### Event and User Attribute Columns

Each individual event name table (not including otherevents) also has one column per event attribute, named like: "ea_[attribute_name]", and one column per user attribute, named like "ua_[attribute_name]". 

The benefit of these individual attribute columns is that you don't have to use slower JSON parse functions in your query to extract attribute values from either EventAttributes or UserAttributes columns. If you wish, individual User Attribute columns can be turned off by disabling the **Send user attribute columns** setting.

## Partner Feed Data

Events from each connected Partner Feed will be stored under a single table unless the **Split Partner Feed Data by Event Name** checkbox is enabled. You can choose the table name for each Feed in the Connection Settings. 
<aside>
If you do not provide a name, mParticle will use the name of the Partner.
</aside>

![medium](/images/redshift-feed.png)

## Error Handling

mParticle loads data into Redshift via Amazon S3 and can tolerate the Redshift cluster being unavailable for up to 30 days, depending on data volume. In the event of extended downtime on your cluster, a data replay can be arranged.

## Looker Integrations

mParticle provides [Looker Blocks](https://marketplace.looker.com/marketplace/detail/digital-analytics-by-mparticle) that you can directly use to get a holistic picture of how your apps are doing. You just need to copy the `lookml` files into your Looker account. There are four dashboard templates. You can access mParticle's Looker Blocks implementation by reaching out to your assigned Looker analyst or requesting a Looker trial. 

- **App Activity Dashboard**. This dashboard gives you an overview of most common app activities, including active user count, new user count, session count, average session length, revenue data, custom funnel analytics, and user retention analysis.

![app activity dashboard](/images/app_activity_dashboard.png)

- **Audience Dashboard**. This dashboard reports how effective an given audience is, comparing users in the audience to other app users. When looking at this dashboard, please make sure you provide a valid audience ID wrapped in quotes in the audience membership filter, e.g., "1234". You can get the audience ID from mParticle UI.

![audience dashboard](/images/audience_dashboard.png)

- **eCommerce Dashboard**. This dashboard offers insights on revenue generated from your apps, e.g., which user acquisition channels gives you the most valuable users, how does total revenue and average revenue per user change over time, how do users' purchase behaviors change over the course of a day, and where do users drop off in the purchase funnel.

![ecomm dashboard](/images/ecomm_dashboard.png)

- **App Version Dashboard**. This dashboard tells you how much a new app version has changed your app performance, e.g., has a new app version improved user retention, or increased revenue per user, or increased average session length, etc.

![app version dashboard](/images/app_version_dashboard.png)

On all four dashboards, you can filter by date range and app platform. Note that in order for the user retention chart to be meaningful, please make sure the event date filter and install date filter have the same date range.

Following the Looker data models and design patterns in the prebuilt Looker Blocks, you can build any Looker report you want that better suits your analytics needs.

Commit message:

Device Application Stamp forwarding for data warehouses (#1887)
* redshift das docs

https://mparticle-eng.atlassian.net/browse/SQDPRG-375

* bigquery das (#1888)

* snowflake das (#1889)

* Update index.md

src/pages/integrations/amazon-redshift/data-warehouse/index.md, after:

---
title: Data Warehouse
---

<aside>
Please note that as of 1/29/2020 we expanded the range of <a href="https://api.mparticle.com/ip-ranges">IP addresses</a> used to forward customer data for Redshift. Please ensure that your whitelist is up-to-date.
</aside>

mParticle's Data Warehouse integration with Amazon Redshift forwards all your incoming data to a Redshift cluster, allowing you to query the raw data directly. 

The integration performs the following tasks in your Redshift cluster:

1. Creates a table for each custom app event name and each eCommerce event name with a volume above a defined threshold. Less common events are recorded in a single table, labeled `otherevents`.

2. Adds new columns to tables when new events or user attributes are received.

3. Creates a view unioning all tables within each schema, and a view in the PUBLIC schema that unions the views of all schema. Updates these views as new tables are created.

4. If enabled, performs data hygeine on your cluster every 24 hours to purge expired data and [run `vacuum` and `analyze` commands](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/tutorial-loading-data-vacuum.html).

By default, the integration begins loading current data into Redshift from the time it is enabled. You can work with your mParticle Customer Service Manager to load historical data.

## Enable the Integration

### Redshift Database Setup

#### 1. Create a Database and Schema

[Create your Redshift Database](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_CREATE_DATABASE.html). The database should be in the same region as your mParticle [pod](/developers/data-localization#logging-into-mparticle). For example, if your mParticle pod is `US1` or `US2`, create your Redshift database in `us_east-1`. Choosing a different region increases latency between mParticle and Redshift.

Within your database, [create a schema](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_CREATE_SCHEMA.html) to store your data.

#### 2. Create groups and users to manage permissions

Once your database is ready, you need to create groups with permissions to read and write data to the database.

~~~sql
create group readwritegroup; 
create group readonlygroup;

grant all on schema your_schema_name to group readwritegroup;
~~~

Be sure to replace `your_schema_name` with your own name.

mParticle uses these groups to grant permissions for new tables it creates in the database. You must use the names `readwritegroup` and `readonlygroup`. You can also use these groups to control permissions for mParticle data in Redshift.

Create a user in each group. mParticle uses the `dataloader` user to create tables and write to the schema. The `readonlyuser` is used to run queries from the mParticle dashboard.

~~~sql
create user dataloader in group readwritegroup password 'Aabcde123!';

create user readonlyuser in group readonlygroup password 'Abcde123!';
~~~

### mParticle Setup

After adding Amazon Redshift from the integrations Directory, you can find the settings UI at **Setup > Data Warehouse**.

![](/images/redshift-setup.png)

From the main page for your Redshift configuration, select the **Settings** tab to provide the necessary settings to get your Redshift integration working.

To forward data subject erasure requests to Amazon Redshift, set the Forwarding Status toggle to Active and select **I understand** after reading the disclaimer. Once the status has been set to Active, erasure requests are sent to Amazon Redshift immediately upon being received by mParticle. 

<aside>
The forwarding behavior for data subject erasure requests to Amazon Redshift is different than the behavior of other event integrations. With Amazon Redshift, the forwarding status reported by mParticle also represents the fulfillment status of the request, since mParticle knows immediately if the erasure request was processed successfully or not.
</aside>

![](/images/redshift-settings-042019.png)

### Configuration Settings
| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value  | Description |
| ---|---|---|---|
| Cluster Endpoint | `string` | | Endpoint string shown on Configuration tab on your Redshift Dashboard. |
| Port | `number` | 5439 | Open port for your cluster. You can find this on the details page for your cluster in Redshift. |
| Database | `string` | | The name of the database where you want to store mParticle Data. |
| Read & Write User ID | `string` | | User ID for the `dataloader` user you created in your Redshift setup. These credentials will be used to manage the schema and load data. |
| Read & Write Password | `string` | | The password for the `dataloader` user. |
| Read Only User ID | `string` | | User ID for the `readonlyuser` user you created in your Redshift setup. These credentials will be used when running queries from the mParticle UI. |
| Read & Write Password | `string` | | The password for the `readonlyuser` user. |
| Redshift Schema Name | `string` | | Name of an existing schema where you want to store mParticle data. |
| Events Threshold | `number` | 10000 | The number of times a custom or commerce event name must be received in 30 day period for mParticle to create a dedicated table for that event.
| Delay Between Loading Sessions in Minutes |`number` | 15 | Allows you to adjust how often you want to load data into the data warehouse. Note that the minimum time is 1 minute and the maximum time is 24 hours (60 minutes x 24).|
| Send user attribute columns | `bool` | `true` | If enabled, individual columns are created for each user attribute |
| Store device stamp | `bool` | false | Store device application stamp in the mParticleDeviceID column. Note that this change does not apply retroactively to tables that have already been created. Data deletion and a replay will be needed in order for existing tables to include this column. |
| Hygiene Permissions | `bool` | true | If enabled, every 24 hours, mParticle will purge data over a certain age and perform vacuum and analyze commands on your database. |
| Number of Days | `number` | 90 | If Data Hygiene is enabled, this is the age in days past which data is purged.

Once your Data Warehose integration is configured, connect individual inputs to the Amazon Redshift output from the **Connections** page. You must connect every input you want to store data for.

### Connection Settings
| Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Platform | Description |
| ---|---|---|---|---|
| Redshift Table Name | `string` | | Out of Band | Table name for this partner feed. If not set, the partner name will be used.  Only applicable to feeds inputs, no effect on apps inputs. If "Split Partner Feed Data by Event Name" checkbox is enabled, this setting is not used. |
| Split Partner Feed Data by Event Name | `boolean` | False | Out of Band | If enabled, split partner feed data by event name. Otherwise load data into the same table. |
| Send Batches without Events | `boolean` | True | All | If enabled, an event batch that contains no events will be forwarded. |

<!--
### Optional Setup

Optionally, you may give mParticle permission to perform "Describe-Clusters" and "Describe-Events" actions on your Redshift cluster so that mParticle services can determine whether your cluster is unavailable due to planned maintenance or actual errors. It also allows mParticle to show your cluster status in the mParticle Dashboard. To grant mParticle permissions for "Describe-Clusters" and "Describe-Events":

1. In IAM create a policy, e.g. "policy-mParticle-Redshift-Access" with the following definition.
    ~~~json
      {
          "Version": "2012-10-17",
          "Statement": [
              {
                  "Sid": "Stmt1452877557000",
                  "Effect": "Allow",
                  "Action": [
                      "redshift:DescribeClusters",
                      "redshift:DescribeEvents"
                  ],
                  "Resource": "*"
              }
          ]
      }
    ~~~
2. In IAM create a Role named `"role-mParticle-Redshift-Access"`. You must use this exact name. Under **Select Role Type**, choose "Role for Cross-Account Access", and select "Allows IAM users from a 3rd party AWS account to access this account".
3. Enter the mParticle account ID and external ID shown on mParticle's Redshift Configuration page. 
4. Attach the policy created above.
5. Enter your AWS account ID on mParticle's Redshift Configuration page.
-->

## Data Schema

Each common custom app event name and eCommerce event name have their own table in Redshift, and all other event names (e.g., session-start, session-end) are stored in a single "otherevents" table. The naming conversion of the table names are as follows.

- A custom app event name will have a table named **event\_[event type]\_[event name]**. For example, a custom app event of event type *Navigation* named *SignUp* will have a table named *event_navigation_signup*.
- An eCommerce event name will have a table named **ecomm\_[event name]**.
- Consent events have tables named **consent_given** and **consent_rejected**
- All other events are stored in a table named **otherevents**.

mParticle also creates two views, which can be used to get aggregated views of your app data.
- Under each schema, a view called *eventsview* that unions all tables under the schema.
- Under the "public" schema, a view called *eventsview* that unions all *eventsview* views from all schema in the database.

### Common Columns

Each table has the following common columns.

| Column Name | Data Type  | Description |
|---|---|---|
|AppId|int| mParticle app Id |
|AppPlatformId|int| mParticle AppPlatformId, e.g., Google Now app has iOS platform and Android platform, and each platform has an unique mParticle AppPlatformId |
|AppName|varchar(255)| App name |
|AppVersion|varchar(255)| App version |
|PackageName|varchar(255)| App package name |
|AppArchitecture|varchar(255)| App architecture |
|IsPirated|bool| Is the device pirated? |
|ApplicationBuildNumber|varchar(255)| Application build number |
|IsDebugSigning|bool| Is the app debug signing? |
|UpgradeDate|bigint| App upgrade timestamp |
|AppEnvironment|varchar(255)| App environment, debug or production |
|InstallReferrer|varchar(255)| Install referrer |
|Brand|varchar(255)| Device brand |
|Product|varchar(255)| Device product |
|DeviceName|varchar(255)| Device name |
|DeviceUdid|varchar(255)| Device UDID |
|Manufacturer|varchar(255)| Device manufacturer |
|Platform|varchar(255)| Device platform |
|OSVersion|varchar(255)| Device OS version |
|DeviceModel|varchar(255)| Device model |
|LocaleCountry|varchar(255)| Device's locale country |
|LocaleLanguage|varchar(255)| Device's locale language |
|NetworkCountry|varchar(255)| Network country |
|NetworkCarrier|varchar(255)| Network carrier name |
|ScreenHeight|int| Device's screen height |
|ScreenWidth|int| Device's screen width |
|ScreenDpi|int| Device's screen dpi |
|DeviceUtcOffset|int| Device UTC offset |
|OsVersionInt|int| Android OS version int |
|Jailbroken|varchar(255)| Device's jailbroken status |
|IDFA|varchar(255)| iOS IDFA |
|GoogleAID|varchar(255)| Android Google Advertising ID |
|Architecture|varchar(255)| Device architecture |
|IsTablet|bool| Is the device a tablet? |
|VendorIdentifier|varchar(255)| iOS vendor identifier |
|Pushtoken|varchar(255)| Push token |
|AttributionServiceProvider|varchar(255)| Attribution service provider name |
|AttributionPublisher|varchar(255)| Attributed publisher name |
|AttributionCampaign|varchar(255)| Attributed campaign name |
|mParticleUserId|bigint| UserId assigned by mParticle |
|CustomerId|varchar(255)| User's customerID, usually this is the unique userId in your system |
|FacebookId|varchar(255)| User's Facebook user Id |
|TwitterId|varchar(255)| User's Twitter ID |
|GoogleUserId|varchar(255)| User's Google ID |
|MicrosoftUserId|varchar(255)| User's Microsoft ID |
|YahooUserId|varchar(255)| User's Yahoo ID |
|Email|varchar(255)| User's email |
|OtherUserId|varchar(255)| "Other" type user identity |
|IsDebug|bool| True for debug environment and false for production environment |
|BatchId|bigint| A unique ID of the batch |
|BatchTimestamp|bigint| Batch timestamp |
|SdkVersion|varchar(255)| mParticle SDK version |
|ClientIp|varchar(20)| Client IP address |
|ClientIpV6 | varchar(45) | Client IP address (compatible with v6) |
|GeoLookupInfo|varchar(1024)| Geo lookup information |
|entrypointtype|smallint| Type of incoming data, Type of incoming data, 1 means from SDK and 128 means from S2S |
|CountryCode|varchar(255)| Country code |
|CityName|varchar(255)| City name |
|PostalCode|varchar(255)| Postal code |
|RegionCode|varchar(255)| Geo region code |
|Latitude|double| Geo latitude |
|Longitude|double| Geo longitude |
|Accuracy|double| Geo accuracy |
|AudienceMembership|varchar(2048)| A array of mParticle segment ID's the user was a member of at the time of the event |
|SessionId|bigint| A unique ID of the session |
|SessionStartTimestamp|bigint| Session start timestamp |
|EventId|bigint| A unique ID of the event |
|EventTimestamp|bigint| Event timestamp |
|MessageTypeId|int| Message Type Id<br> 1 = Session Start<br>   2 = Session End<br>  3 = Screen View<br>  4 = App Event<br>  5 = Crash Report<br>   6 = Opt Out<br>  7 = First Run<br>  8 = PreAttribution<br>   9 = Push Registration<br>  10 = Application State Transition<br>  11 = Push Message<br>  12 = Network Performance<br>   13 = Breadcrumb<br>  14 = Profile<br>   15 = Push Reaction<br>   16 = Commerce Event<br>  17 = UserAttributeChange<br>   18 = UserIdentityChange<br>  19 = Uninstall |
|EventStartTimestamp|bigint| Event start timestamp |
|EventDate|date| Event date. Sort key |
|EventHour|datetime| Event hour. Sort key |
|EventName|varchar(255)| Event name |
|EventTypeId|int| Event type Id |
|EventLength|bigint| How long did the event take? Represents session length in milliseconds on session end events |
|EventLtvValue|double| Monetary value extracted from the event |
|DataConnectionType|varchar(255)| Data connection type |
|ExceptionHandled|bool| Handled exception or crash |
|IsFirstRunEvent|bool| Is this a first run event? |
|FirstSeenTimestamp|bigint| Timestamp of the first event on this user |
|IsUpgradeEvent|bool| Is this an app upgrade event? |
|SuccessfullyClosed|bool| Is the last session successfully closed? Will be false if app is forcefully killed |
|ApplicationTransitionTypeId|smallint| Application Transition TypeId. AppInit = 1<br> AppExit = 2<br> AppBackground = 3<br> AppForeground = 4 |
|eventcustomflags|varchar(2048)| Event custom flags |
|EventAttributes|varchar(10240)| A JSON string that contains key/value pairs of event attribute names and values |
|UserAttributes|varchar(10240)| A JSON string that contains key/value pairs of user attribute names and values |

### eCommerce Only Columns

| Column Name | Data Type  | Description |
|---|---|---|
|ProductActionTypeId|smallint| eCommerce Product Action Type Id<br> 0 = unknown<br> 1 = add_to_cart<br> 2 = remove_from_cart<br> 3 = checkout<br> 4 = checkout_option<br> 5 = click<br> 6 = view_detail<br> 7 = purchase<br> 8 = refund<br> 9 = add_to_wishlist<br> 10 = remove_from_wishlist |
|EcommerceScreenName|varchar(50)| eCommerce screen name |
|EcommerceIsNonInteractive|bool| Is eCommerce action interactive? |
|PromotionActionTypeId|smallint| Promotion Action Type Id<br> 0 = unknown<br> 1 = view<br> 2 = click |
|ProductAction|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing product action details |
|PromotionAction|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing promotion action details |
|ProductImpressions|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing product impressions |
|ShoppingCart|varchar(5000)| JSON string representing shopping cart info |

### Event and User Attribute Columns

Each individual event name table (not including otherevents) also has one column per event attribute, named like: "ea_[attribute_name]", and one column per user attribute, named like "ua_[attribute_name]". 

The benefit of these individual attribute columns is that you don't have to use slower JSON parse functions in your query to extract attribute values from either EventAttributes or UserAttributes columns. If you wish, individual User Attribute columns can be turned off by disabling the **Send user attribute columns** setting.

## Partner Feed Data

Events from each connected Partner Feed will be stored under a single table unless the **Split Partner Feed Data by Event Name** checkbox is enabled. You can choose the table name for each Feed in the Connection Settings. 
<aside>
If you do not provide a name, mParticle will use the name of the Partner.
</aside>

![medium](/images/redshift-feed.png)

## Device Application Stamp Forwarding

Events can be forwarded with a Device Application Stamp stored in the device ID column. You can enable this in the settings page for your data warehouse configuration by toggling the **Store Device Stamp** checkbox.

## Error Handling

mParticle loads data into Redshift via Amazon S3 and can tolerate the Redshift cluster being unavailable for up to 30 days, depending on data volume. In the event of extended downtime on your cluster, a data replay can be arranged.

## Looker Integrations

mParticle provides [Looker Blocks](https://marketplace.looker.com/marketplace/detail/digital-analytics-by-mparticle) that you can directly use to get a holistic picture of how your apps are doing. You just need to copy the `lookml` files into your Looker account. There are four dashboard templates. You can access mParticle's Looker Blocks implementation by reaching out to your assigned Looker analyst or requesting a Looker trial. 

- **App Activity Dashboard**. This dashboard gives you an overview of most common app activities, including active user count, new user count, session count, average session length, revenue data, custom funnel analytics, and user retention analysis.

![app activity dashboard](/images/app_activity_dashboard.png)

- **Audience Dashboard**. This dashboard reports how effective an given audience is, comparing users in the audience to other app users. When looking at this dashboard, please make sure you provide a valid audience ID wrapped in quotes in the audience membership filter, e.g., "1234". You can get the audience ID from mParticle UI.

![audience dashboard](/images/audience_dashboard.png)

- **eCommerce Dashboard**. This dashboard offers insights on revenue generated from your apps, e.g., which user acquisition channels gives you the most valuable users, how does total revenue and average revenue per user change over time, how do users' purchase behaviors change over the course of a day, and where do users drop off in the purchase funnel.

![ecomm dashboard](/images/ecomm_dashboard.png)

- **App Version Dashboard**. This dashboard tells you how much a new app version has changed your app performance, e.g., has a new app version improved user retention, or increased revenue per user, or increased average session length, etc.

![app version dashboard](/images/app_version_dashboard.png)

On all four dashboards, you can filter by date range and app platform. Note that in order for the user retention chart to be meaningful, please make sure the event date filter and install date filter have the same date range.

Following the Looker data models and design patterns in the prebuilt Looker Blocks, you can build any Looker report you want that better suits your analytics needs.
