src/pages/integrations/blueshift/event/index.md, before:

---
title: Event
---

[Blueshift](https://blueshift.com/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=mparticle) enables large-scale consumer marketers to automate hyper-personalized 'Segment of One' marketing, combining dynamic segmentation with highly personalized content, across multiple marketing channels.

## Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle's integration with Blueshift, you will need to work with your Blueshift representative to obtain your configuration settings.


## Supported Event Types

* Commerce Event
* Custom Event
* Screen View
* User Attribute Change
* User Identity Change

## Supported User Identities
* Customer ID
* Email
* Other
* Facebook ID

## Supported Device Identities 
 * Push Token
 * Apple IDFA
 * Google Advertising ID

## Maximum Data Age

Blueshift supports retrieving data for up to 24 hours.

## Supported Environments

* Android
* Data Feeds
* iOS
* Web

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---|
Event API Key| `string` | | Event API key used to send click-stream data to BlueShift API - You will need an event-stream API key which is accessible from Blueshift dashboard at <https://app.getblueshift.com/dashboard#/account_setup>. <br>or contact <success@getblueshift.com>.

Commit message:

Blueshift: add notes on kit + kit configuration (#910)
* add notes on kit + kit configuration

* updated for kit detection

* fix sample build.gradle, adjust phrasing per Sam's review

* Update src/pages/integrations/blueshift/event/index.md

Co-Authored-By: Sam Dozor <sdozor@mparticle.com>

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>
Co-authored-by: Sam Dozor <sdozor@mparticle.com>

src/pages/integrations/blueshift/event/index.md, after:

---
title: Event
---

[Blueshift](https://blueshift.com/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=mparticle) enables large-scale consumer marketers to automate hyper-personalized 'Segment of One' marketing, combining dynamic segmentation with highly personalized content, across multiple marketing channels.

## Prerequisites
 
1.  Obtain your Blueshift API Key [from the Blueshift dashboard](https://app.getblueshift.com/dashboard#/account_setup) or by contacting success@getblueshift.com.  
2. Use the API key to configure a Blueshift output for your mParticle workspace

## Blueshift Configurations

mParticle supports both a server-to-server integration and a client-side kit integration. In-app events and events associated with push notifications will be sent client-side to Blueshift via Blueshift's SDK in conjunction with this kit. If the kit is detected, all events will be sent client side, otherwise events will be sent via the server-to-server integration.  

## Blueshift Kit Configuration

You can find Blueshift's Kit implementations and details on how to configure them below.

* [iOS](https://github.com/blueshift-labs/mparticle-apple-integration-blueshift)
* [Android](https://github.com/blueshift-labs/mparticle-android-integration-blueshift)

Add the Blueshift Kit to your iOS or Android app and the mParticle SDK will automatically route appropriate event data to Blueshift client-side.

:::code-selector-block
~~~objectivec
//Sample Podfile
target '<Your Target>' do
    pod 'Blueshift-mParticle-Kit'
end
~~~
~~~java
//Sample build.gradle
dependencies {
    compile 'com.blueshift:android-mparticle-kit:+'
}
~~~   
:::

## Supported Event Types

* Commerce Event
* Custom Event
* Screen View
* User Attribute Change
* User Identity Change

## Supported User Identities
* Customer ID
* Email
* Other
* Facebook ID

## Supported Device Identities 
 * Push Token
 * Apple IDFA
 * Google Advertising ID

## Maximum Data Age

Blueshift supports retrieving data for up to 24 hours.

## Supported Environments

* Android
* Data Feeds
* iOS
* Web

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---|
Event API Key| `string` | | Event API key used to send click-stream data to BlueShift API - You will need an event-stream API key which is accessible from Blueshift dashboard at <https://app.getblueshift.com/dashboard#/account_setup>. <br>or contact <success@getblueshift.com>.
