## ActionX

ActionX offers mobile and cross-screen re-targeting capabilities to brands and mobile app publishers.  mParticle's integration with ActionX enables you to push audiences created in mParticle's Audience Manager to ActionX for use in re-targeting and re-engagement campaigns, as well as forward in-app event data to ActionX for conversion tracking and campaign optimization.

### Supported Features

* Event Forwarding
* Audience Forwarding

### Prerequisites 

In order to enable our integration with ActionX, you'll need to obtain one or more Advertiser Tokens from ActionX - one for each App that you're planning to forward Audiences to.  Please reach out to your contact at ActionX for additional information on how to obtain your Advertising Tokens.

### Event Data Mapping

mParticle's integration forwards the following event types to ActionX:

* App Installs
* App Opens/Activations
* App Login/Logout
* Screen Views
* E-Commerce
	* 	Purchases
	*	Product Views
	*	Add/Remove from a Shopping Cart
	*	Add/Remove from a Wish List
*	Custom Event Types (all event types not listed above will be forwarded as custom events)

The following table details how mParticle E-Commerce events are mapped into ActionX's data model: 

mParticle Method |ActionX Event Data Mapping 
|-
`logTransaction` | All Events generated by calls to `logTransaction` will be passed as revenue-increasing product purchase events to ActionX.  The transaction ID in the associated `MPProduct` will be passed as the product ID, and total price will be passed as revenue. |
`logLtvIncrease` | Calls to `logLtvIncrease` will increase App and User revenue in ActionX by the specified amount. 
`logProductEvent` | Calls to `logProductEvent` will be forwarded to ActionX as Product View, Add/Remove from Cart, or Add/Remove from Wishlist Product Action Events, according to the enum value passed to `logProductEvent`. 
`logEvent` | All calls to `logEvent` with the reserved attribute "$Amount" defined will increase App and User revenue in ActionX by the value of `$Amount`.

#### E-Commerce Product Attributes

If defined in an MPProduct object, the Unit Price and Category will be passed as product attributes to ActionX and utilized for campaign optimization.