
## Impact Radius

Impact Radius' digital marketing platform provides an integrated suite of products for media attribution, performance marketing, tag management and mobile analytics.

### Supported Features

* User Analytics
* Attribution

### Event Data Mapping

mParticle’s integration forwards the following event types to Impact Radius:

1. Application State Transition
2. Commerce Events
3. Custom Event

### Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle’s integration with Impact Radius, you will need an Impact Radius account to obtain your configuration settings.  Detail on where you can find these settings are included below:

* *Account SID* and *Auth Token* can be found by navigating to Account Settings (Gear Icon in the upper right of your screen) > Technical Settings > API Access tab.
* *Campaign ID* - The campaign names and IDs are displayed under your advertiser account name (in the upper right-hand corner). If you have more than one campaign, you can click on the drop-down to see a complete list of all campaigns.
* *System App ID* - The application ID that is generated for your mobile app by Impact Radius. This can be found by navigating to Tracking Settings > Mobile Apps.

Additional details on the mapping of mParticle events to Impact Radius event codes are available once logged into Impact Radius.  From the Impact Radius dashboard click the "?" icon at the top right to access the help system or click [here](https://help.impactradius.com/hc/en-us/articles/115002663567-mParticle-Integration-Mobile-App-Event-Tracking).

### Configuration Settings

Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Description
|-
Account SID | `string` | | Your account SID for REST API access generated by Impact Radius.
Auth Token | `string` | | Your auth token for REST API access generated by Impact Radius.

### Connection Settings

Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Platform | Description
|-
Campaign ID | `string` | | All | The unique ID associated with your Impact Radius campaign.
System App ID | `string` | | All | The application ID that is generated for your mobile app by Impact Radius.
