src/pages/integrations/the-trade-desk/audience/index.md, before:

---
title: Audience
---

The Trade Desk provides a self-service platform that enables ad buyers to manage data-driven digital advertising campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video, and social, across devices.

## Prerequisites

In order to forward an mParticle audience to The Trade Desk you will need to work with your The Trade Desk Account Manager to get the Configuration Settings.  Your Advertiser ID is available from The Trade Desk dashboard and your Account Manager can provide you with your Advertiser Secret Key.  

## Audience Name Requirements

When forwarding audiences to The Trade Desk, mParticle sets a name based on the External Audience Name. To be accepted by The Trade Desk, your External Audience Name must be under 50 characters and must not contain any of the following characters: 
* `'` (single quote)
* `"` (double quote)
* `,` (comma)
* `^` (caret)

## User Identity Mapping

When forwarding audience data to The Trade Desk, mParticle will send IDFAs and Android Advertising IDs.

## Upload Frequency

The Trade Desk Audience Integration uses Bulk Forwarding. Bulk Forwarding means that, instead of uploading updates to an audience in real time, mParticle compiles updates into a queue until either a given amount of time has passed since the last upload, or until a certain number of updates are waiting to be sent.

By default, mParticle uploads to The Trade Desk whenever at least one of the following conditions is met:

* 3 hours have passed since the last update.
* At least 10000 messages are in the queue.

Upload frequency can sometimes be adjusted. Reach out to your mParticle Customer Success Manager if you need to discuss upload frequency.

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description 
|---|---|---|---
Advertiser ID |`string` | | The Advertiser ID available on your The Trade Desk dashboard
Advertiser Secret Key | `string` | | The Trade Desk Shared Secret which you can get from your Account Manager
Location |`string` | North America - East | The Trade Desk Data Center Region Location where audience data will be sent

Commit message:

add info about downstream audience deletion (#1885)

src/pages/integrations/the-trade-desk/audience/index.md, after:

---
title: Audience
---

The Trade Desk provides a self-service platform that enables ad buyers to manage data-driven digital advertising campaigns across various advertising formats, including display, video, and social, across devices.

## Prerequisites

In order to forward an mParticle audience to The Trade Desk you will need to work with your The Trade Desk Account Manager to get the Configuration Settings.  Your Advertiser ID is available from The Trade Desk dashboard and your Account Manager can provide you with your Advertiser Secret Key.  

## Audience Name Requirements

When forwarding audiences to The Trade Desk, mParticle sets a name based on the External Audience Name. To be accepted by The Trade Desk, your External Audience Name must be under 50 characters and must not contain any of the following characters: 
* `'` (single quote)
* `"` (double quote)
* `,` (comma)
* `^` (caret)

## User Identity Mapping

When forwarding audience data to The Trade Desk, mParticle will send IDFAs and Android Advertising IDs.

## Upload Frequency

The Trade Desk Audience Integration uses Bulk Forwarding. Bulk Forwarding means that, instead of uploading updates to an audience in real time, mParticle compiles updates into a queue until either a given amount of time has passed since the last upload, or until a certain number of updates are waiting to be sent.

By default, mParticle uploads to The Trade Desk whenever at least one of the following conditions is met:

* 3 hours have passed since the last update.
* At least 10000 messages are in the queue.

Upload frequency can sometimes be adjusted. Reach out to your mParticle Customer Success Manager if you need to discuss upload frequency.

## Deleting an Audience

mParticle doesn't delete the downstream audience when you delete an audience in mParticle.

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description 
|---|---|---|---
Advertiser ID |`string` | | The Advertiser ID available on your The Trade Desk dashboard
Advertiser Secret Key | `string` | | The Trade Desk Shared Secret which you can get from your Account Manager
Location |`string` | North America - East | The Trade Desk Data Center Region Location where audience data will be sent
