src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md, before:

---
title: Audience
---

SendGrid is a leading provider of cloud-based email services, with both marketing and transactional email automation capabilities.  App marketers can leverage mParticle's integration with SendGrid to target email marketing efforts to app user audiences created with mParticle's Audience Manager.

<aside>This audience integration is disabled for maintenance.</aside>

## Prerequisites

In order to forward an mParticle audience to SendGrid you will need your SendGrid Username and Password.  These are the same credentials used for your Send Grid SMTP settings, and for logging into the SendGrid website.

## User Identity Mapping

When forwarding audience data to SendGrid, mParticle will send Emails and any user attributes provided by the application.

## Audience Configuration

### 1. Setup the SendGrid Account

In the mParticle Audience Manager, create a new account specifying your SendGrid API user and key.

### 2. Setup the Audience Subscription

In the mParticle Audience Manager, specify the audience specific parameters for this subscription - SendGrid List Name.

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description 
|---|---|---|---
API User|`string`| |Your SendGrid user name. This is the same credential used for your SendGrid SMTP settings, and for logging into the SendGrid website.
API Key|`string` | | Your SendGrid password. This is the same credential used for your SendGrid SMTP settings, and for logging into the SendGrid website.

## Connection Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description 
|---|---|---|---
List Name|`string` | | The list name that will appear in your SendGrid account.

### 3. Configure User Attribute Sharing

In the mParticle Audience Manager, setup user attribute sharing as described [here](/guides/platform-guide/audiences/#user-attribute-sharing). User attributes enabled via user attribute sharing will be automatically created as custom fields in SendGrid. 

<aside>Note: please avoid deleting automatically created custom fields from SendGrid since that will cause all updates for users with that field to fail.</aside>

Commit message:

Update the SendGrid documentation (#1630)
* Update documentation of SendGrid

* Fix misspelling

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Guillermo Leon <v-gleon@mparticle.com>

* fixed formatting of custom field

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>

* Fix some Nits

* updated docs after review with Michael

@tonyl @mnadareski - I updated the docs after review with Michael, however I'm wondering if there is an implementation issue.

All of the `Select Attribute` dropdowns only contain user attributes - 

Should all of the mapping fields, especially the `Required Email Mapping` field, contain User identities in addition to the user attributes?

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Mysti Berry <mberry@mparticle.com>

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Mysti Berry <mberry@mparticle.com>

* add user identities

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>

* Update src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>

* change the API Key description

Co-authored-by: Debbie Miller <dmiller@mparticle.com>
Co-authored-by: Guillermo Leon <v-gleon@mparticle.com>
Co-authored-by: Mysti Berry <mberry@mparticle.com>

src/pages/integrations/sendgrid/audience/index.md, after:

---
title: Audience
---

[SendGrid](https://sendgrid.com/) helps marketers deliver transactional and marketing email through one reliable platform.  App marketers can leverage mParticle's integration with SendGrid to target email marketing efforts to app user audiences created with mParticle's Audience Manager.

## Prerequisites

To forward an mParticle audience to SendGrid you need your SendGrid username and password.  These are the same credentials used for your SendGrid SMTP settings, and for logging in to the SendGrid website. Once you log in to the SendGrid site, you can [create your API key](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/api-keys). Be sure to copy the API key into the mParticle configuration setting. The API key must be either Full Access or Restricted Access with Marketing permissions.

## User Identity Mapping

When forwarding audience data to SendGrid:

* You must select the mParticle identity which maps to the Sendgrid Email identity.
* You can map mParticle user attributes to SendGrid [reserved fields.](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/managing-contacts/custom-fields#reserved-fields) with the `Reserved Attribute Mapping`
* You can map mParticle user attributes to SendGrid [custom fields.](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/managing-contacts/custom-fields) with the `Custom Attribute Mapping` connection settings.  The custom fields will be created if they do not exist if the `Allow mParticle to send new custom fields` connection setting is True.  SendGrid supports up to 120 custom fields.

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---
API Key|`string` | | Your SendGrid API Key. You can generate one, once you're logged in SendGrid platform, and following the next steps [SendGrid API Key](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/account-and-settings/api-keys#creating-an-api-key).

## Connection Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---
List Name | `string` | | The list name that will appear in your SendGrid account.
Required Email Mapping | enum | | Set the mParticle User Identity to be mapped with Email in SendGrid.
Reserved Attribute Mapping | custom field | | Set mParticle fields with SendGrid reserved fields.
Allow mParticle to Send New Custom Fields| `bool` | True | Allow mParticle to create Custom Fields if they don't exist in the SendGrid account.
Custom Attribute Mapping| custom field | | Set mParticle user attributes and create custom fields in SendGrid.
