---
title: Event
---

[Impact](http://impact.com/) accelerates enterprise growth by automating the full partnership life cycle, including: discovery, recruitment, contracting, engagement, fraud protection, optimization and payment processing for enterprise partnerships.

## Supported Features

* User Analytics
* Attribution

## Supported Platforms
* Android
* iOS
* Web

## User Identities
mParticle will forward the following User Identities to Impact:

* Customer ID
* Email

## Device IDs
mParticle will forward the following Device IDs to Impact:

* Android ID
* Google Advertising ID (GAID)
* iOS Advertising ID (IDFA)
* iOS Vendor ID (IDFV)

## Data Processing Notes
Impact will not accept data older than 31 days.

## Event Data Mapping

mParticle’s integration forwards the following event types to Impact:

1. Application State Transition
2. Commerce Events
3. Custom Event

## Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle’s integration with Impact, you will need an Impact account to obtain your configuration settings.  Detail on where you can find these settings are included below:

* *Account SID* and *Auth Token* can be found by navigating to Account Settings (Gear Icon in the upper right of your screen) > Technical Settings > API Access tab.
* *Campaign ID* - The campaign names and IDs are displayed under your advertiser account name (in the upper right-hand corner). If you have more than one campaign, you can click on the drop-down to see a complete list of all campaigns.
* *System App ID* - The application ID that is generated for your mobile app by Impact. This can be found by navigating to Tracking Settings > Mobile Apps.
* *Tracking Domain* - The domain name used to track ad clicks for your Impact campaign. This can be found by navigating to the Tracking Settings > General screen.

Additional details on the mapping of mParticle events to Impact event codes are available once logged into Impact.  From the Impact dashboard click the "?" icon at the top right to access the help system or click [here](https://help.impactradius.com/hc/en-us/articles/115002663567-mParticle-Integration-Mobile-App-Event-Tracking).

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---|
Account SID | `string` | | Your account SID for REST API access generated by Impact.
Auth Token | `string` | | Your auth token for REST API access generated by Impact.

### Connection Settings

Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Platform | Description
|---|---|---|---|---|
Campaign ID | `string` | | All | The unique ID associated with your Impact Campaign or View.
System App ID | `string` | | All | The application ID that is generated for your mobile app by Impact.
Tracking Domain | `string` | | All | The domain name used to track ad clicks for your Impact Campaign or View.
