---
title: Event
---

[Personify XP](www.personifyxp.com) is a real-time behavioral analytics & personalization platform. While tracking real-time user actions, Personify XP's proprietary AI identifies key behavioral journeys which can be used to predict user goals and future behavior. This can be used to provide a consistent, personalized user experience across their entire digital journey. Dynamic segments can be created from user behaviors to integrate into other business systems such as adtech, CRM, CMS and other marketing tools. Additionally, the behavioral insights generated by the Personify XP platform can be used to drive business decisions within ecommerce, marketing and trading teams.

## Prerequisites
In order to setup the integration, contact your Personify XP account manager to receive credentials. After setup in staging, Personify XP's engineering team will validate the data being sent across to your Personify XP staging environment before switching the data to point to the Personify XP production environment.

## Supported Platforms
* Android
* iOS
* Web
* Server to Server

## Supported Event Types
* Custom Event
* Commerce Event (Product Action, Promotion Action, Impression)
* Screen View
* Session Start / End

## Supported Identity Types

### User IDs
* mParticle ID (MPID)
* Customer ID
* Email Address (sha256)
* Partner ID (personifyxp_pxpid)

## Data Processing Notes
Personify XP will not accept data over 24 hours old.
Personify XP will receive IP address, and user attributes with forwarded events.

## Configuration Settings

| Setting Name| Data Type | Default Value | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| API Key | `string` | | API key to connect to client account (supplied to client by Personify XP). |
| Client ID | `string` | | Client ID (supplied to client by Personify XP). |




