src/pages/integrations/bing/events/index.md, before:

---
title: Event
---

[Bing Ads Universal Event Tracking (UET)](https://advertise.bingads.microsoft.com/en-us/solutions/audience-targeting/universal-event-tracking) you can create one UET tag and place it across your website, allowing you to collect data for tracking conversion goals and targeting audiences with remarketing lists.

### Supported Features

* Conversion Tracking

### Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle's integration with Bing, you will need your Universal Event Tracking (UET) Tag ID. Follow the steps [here](http://help.bingads.microsoft.com/#apex/3/en/56682/2) to create your UET tag. In the View UET tag tracking code box, your Tag ID will be shown.

### Event Data Mapping

At least one of the following fields is required to forward events to Bing: 

* Event Category
* Event Label
* Event Value

mParticle maps logged events to Bing's event structure as follows:

Bing Parameter | Description | Mapping 
|---|---|---
ec | Event Category | `event.EventCategory`
ea | Event Action | Set to 'pageLoad' or 'ecommerce', if `logEvent` or `logPurchaseEvent` is called, respectively.
el | Event Label | `event.EventName`
ev | Event Value  | Set to the 'Bing.EventValue' Custom Flag.
gv | Goal Value (Variable Revenue) | `event.ProductAction.TotalAmount` (Only used if `logPurchaseEvent` is called).

### Connection Settings

| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value | Platform | Description |
| ---|---|---|---|---
| Tag ID | `string` | <unset> | Web| The ID associated with the Universal Event Tracking (UET) tag. |

Commit message:

Kit-only note for CA (#1711)
* kit only note for CA

* Update src/pages/guides/platform-guide/calculated-attributes/reference/index.md

src/pages/integrations/bing/events/index.md, after:

---
title: Event
---

[Bing Ads Universal Event Tracking (UET)](https://advertise.bingads.microsoft.com/en-us/solutions/audience-targeting/universal-event-tracking) you can create one UET tag and place it across your website, allowing you to collect data for tracking conversion goals and targeting audiences with remarketing lists.

This is a kit-only integration that solely supports client-side data forwarding.

### Supported Features

* Conversion Tracking

### Prerequisites

In order to enable mParticle's integration with Bing, you will need your Universal Event Tracking (UET) Tag ID. Follow the steps [here](http://help.bingads.microsoft.com/#apex/3/en/56682/2) to create your UET tag. In the View UET tag tracking code box, your Tag ID will be shown.

### Event Data Mapping

At least one of the following fields is required to forward events to Bing: 

* Event Category
* Event Label
* Event Value

mParticle maps logged events to Bing's event structure as follows:

Bing Parameter | Description | Mapping 
|---|---|---
ec | Event Category | `event.EventCategory`
ea | Event Action | Set to 'pageLoad' or 'ecommerce', if `logEvent` or `logPurchaseEvent` is called, respectively.
el | Event Label | `event.EventName`
ev | Event Value  | Set to the 'Bing.EventValue' Custom Flag.
gv | Goal Value (Variable Revenue) | `event.ProductAction.TotalAmount` (Only used if `logPurchaseEvent` is called).

### Connection Settings

| Setting Name |  Data Type    | Default Value | Platform | Description |
| ---|---|---|---|---
| Tag ID | `string` | <unset> | Web| The ID associated with the Universal Event Tracking (UET) tag. |
