src/pages/integrations/iterable/audience/index.md, before:

---
title: Audience
---

[Iterable](https://www.iterable.com) makes consumer growth marketing and user engagement simple. With Iterable, marketers send the right message, to the right device, at the right time.


Iterable is a multi-channel growth marketing and user engagement platform that powers marketing, transactional, and lifecycle campaigns on email, web and mobile.  Iterable requires your application to be collecting email addresses.  This can be done by calling the `setUserIdentity` SDK method.

## Prerequisites

In order to forward an mParticle audience to Iterable, you must have an account with Iterable.

1. Sign into your Iterable account at [https://app.iterable.com/login/](https://app.iterable.com/login)
2. Create your Iterable API keys by selecting Integrations -> API Keys
3. Click the Create New API Key button
4. Select to create a key of type `Mobile`
5. Click Create
6. Save the value in the Key column of the table.  This value is needed to configure Iterable in mParticle.

Follow these [steps](https://support.iterable.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000770906-Importing-User-Lists-) to create a new List in Iterable with no users.   

![Iterable List](/images/iterable-import-list1.png)

From the List View, get the List ID for your List from the table to enter in the mParticle configuration.

![Iterable List](/images/iterable-listid1.png)

## User Identity Mapping

When forwarding audience data to Iterable, mParticle will send Emails and if they exist, Customer IDs and any additional user attributes. 

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description 
|---|---|---|---
|API Key|`string` | | Your Iterable API Key|

## Connection Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---|
|List ID | `string` | | The Iterable List ID which will be mapped to this audience.|
|User ID | `string` | customerId | All| Select which user identity to forward to Iterable as your customer's user ID. |

Commit message:

Iterable - Document user attribute mappings and update API key instructions

src/pages/integrations/iterable/audience/index.md, after:

---
title: Audience
---

[Iterable](https://www.iterable.com) makes consumer growth marketing and user engagement simple. With Iterable, marketers send the right message, to the right device, at the right time.


Iterable is a multi-channel growth marketing and user engagement platform that powers marketing, transactional, and lifecycle campaigns on email, web and mobile.  Iterable requires your application to be collecting email addresses.  This can be done by calling the `setUserIdentity` SDK method.

## Prerequisites

In order to forward an mParticle audience to Iterable, you must have an account with Iterable. You can sign into your Iterable account at [https://app.iterable.com/login/](https://app.iterable.com/login).

### Create a Standard API Key

Create a dedicated _Standard_ API key for the Iterable Audience Integration:

1. In Iterable, navigate to to **Integrations > API Keys**.
2. Click **New API Key**.
3. Provide a descriptive name such as `mparticle-audience-integration`.
4. For the [API key type](https://support.iterable.com/hc/articles/360043464871#types-of-api-keys), select **Standard**.
5. Click **Create**.
6. Save the value of the key created. You will not be able to view it again. This value is needed to configure the Iterable Event Integration in mParticle.

Follow these [steps](https://support.iterable.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000770906-Importing-User-Lists-) to create a new List in Iterable with no users.   

![Iterable List](/images/iterable-import-list1.png)

From the List View, get the List ID for your List from the table to enter in the mParticle configuration.

![Iterable List](/images/iterable-listid1.png)

## User Identity Mapping

The User ID selected in the Audience Connection Settings will impact how audiences are forwarded to Iterable.

| User ID Setting | User Identity Mapping |
| --- | --- |
| Customer ID | Email address and Customer ID will be forwarded to Iterable. The mParticle identity `customer_id` will be mapped to the Iterable `userId` attribute. Users must have an email address in order to be forwared to Iterable. |
| mParticle ID | Email address and mParticle ID will be forwarded to Iterable. The mParticle identity `mpid` will be mapped to the Iterable `userId` attribute. Users without an email address will be forwarded with a "placeholder" email address. Placeholder email addresses use the format `<mpid>@placeholder.email`. |

## Configuration Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description 
|---|---|---|---
|API Key|`string` | | Your Iterable API Key|

## Connection Settings

Setting Name | Data Type | Default Value | Description
|---|---|---|---|
|List ID | `string` | | The Iterable List ID which will be mapped to this audience.|
|User ID | `string` | customerId | Select which user identity to forward to Iterable as your customer's user ID. |
