src/pages/integrations/snapchat-conversions/event/index.md, before:

---
title: Event
---

<aside class="warning">This integration replaces the deprecated <a href="https://docs.mparticle.com/integrations/snapchat/event/">Snapchat Event</a> integration, which won't receive future updates. If you are creating a new integration, use this module.</aside>

The [Snapchat Conversion API](https://marketingapi.snapchat.com/docs/conversion.html) integration is a server-to-server integration that allows advertisers to pass web, app, and offline events from mParticle directly to Snap. Data shared through the Snapchat Conversions API is processed similarly to events passed through the Snap Pixel or App Ads Kit (SDK). By passing events, advertisers can access post-view and post-swipe campaign reporting to measure performance and incrementality. Depending on the data shared and timeliness of integration, it’s also possible to use events passed through the Conversions API for campaign optimization, ad targeting and measurement of conversions that resulted from your Snapchat campaigns.

**Benefits**:

* **Privacy at its core**: Conversions API is designed and built with privacy in mind. When implemented, the Conversions API will give you control over what and when you share data.

* **Stronger optimization**: Data that Snapchat receives from the Conversions API will help to better inform the optimization and delivery of your campaigns, to drive more efficient cost per action.
* **Robust targeting**: Conversions API will allow you to populate first-party custom audiences in real-time, which you can use to create Lookalikes from, or re-engage with your existing customers.

* **Improved measurement**: Better understand the results that your campaigns are driving across all channels through a single solution. Conversions API will even allow you to unlock more sophisticated forms of incrementally measurement such as Conversion Lift.


## Prerequisites

**Conversions API Token**: This is Snap’s new static long lived token used for authentication. To find your Conversions API Token, go to the Business Details view on your Snap dashboard. You will see a section called Conversions API Tokens. Please note that you must be an Organization Admin to view this section of the page.

![Snapchat Conversions API Tokens](/images/snapchat-capi-token.png)

**Snap App ID**: In order to forward any events, you will need your Snap App ID. To find your Snap App ID, go to the Apps view on your Snap Ads dashboard. Click on an App to see the App Details view. Your Snap App ID is labeled App ID.

**iOS App ID**: When setting up an iOS connection to Snap, you will need your iOS App ID. To find your iOS App ID, go to the Apps view on your Snap Ads dashboard. Click on an App to see the App Details view. Your iOS App ID is labeled iOS App ID.

**Android App URL**: When setting up an Android connection to Snap, you will need your Android App URL. To find your Android App URL, go to the Apps view on your Snap Ads dashboard. Click on an App to see the App Details view. Your Android App URL is labeled Android App URL.

**Pixel ID**: When setting up a Web connection to Snap, you will need your Pixel ID. To find your Pixel ID, go to the Events Manager view on your Snap Ads dashboard. You will see your Pixel’s name directly underneath its ID.

## Supported Inputs

* iOS
* Android
* Web
* Data Feeds

NOTE:
* Events originating from iOS or Android will be forwarded to Snapchat as `MOBILE_WEB` events.
* Events originating from Web will be forwarded to Snapchat as `WEB` events.
* Events originating from a Data Feed will be forwarded to Snapchat as `OFFLINE` events, since they aren't strictly associated with a device.

## Supported Identifiers

* Email Address
* Mobile Number, Phone Number 2, Phone Number 3
* iOS - IDFA and IDFV
* Android - Google Advertising ID

## Supported Event Types

The following set of mParticle [events](/developers/server/json-reference/#events) are supported by this integration.

* Application State Transition
* Commerce Event
* Custom Event
* Screen View

### Standard Event Mappings

mParticle supports standard event mappings for the following Snapchat event types:

| Snapchat Event    | mParticle Event                                                                                                                                       |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `APP_INSTALL`     | Application State Transition with `application_transition_type` as `application_initialized` and `is_first_run` as `true` and `is_upgrade` as `false` |
| `APP_OPEN`        | Application State Transition with `application_transition_type` as `application_foreground`                                                           |
| `AD_CLICK`        | Commerce with `click` promotion action.                                                                                                               |
| `AD_VIEW`         | Commerce with `view` promotion action.                                                                                                                |
| `ADD_CART`        | Commerce with `add_to_cart` product action.                                                                                                           |
| `ADD_TO_WISHLIST` | Commerce with `add_to_wishlist` product action.                                                                                                       |
| `PURCHASE`        | Commerce with `purchase` product action. Refunds are not natively supported by Snap.                                                                  |
| `START_CHECKOUT`  | Commerce with `checkout` product action.                                                                                                              |
| `VIEW_CONTENT`    | Commerce with `view_detail` product action.                                                                                                           |
| `PAGE_VIEW`       | Screen View                                                                                                                                           |

Incoming Commerce events to mParticle are expanded before being sent out to Snapchat.
Example: One incoming `purchase` Commerce event to mParticle with three products will go out to Snapchat as three `PURCHASE` events.

To support refund events, Snapchat recommends using our [Custom Event Mappings](/integrations/snapchat-conversions/event/#custom-event-mappings) to set up one of Snapchat's five custom event types and passing the refund amount as its price.

### Custom Event Mappings

In order to support alternative Snapchat event types that don't map one-to-one with mParticle events, we allow customers to manually configure [Custom Mappings](/guides/platform-guide/connections/#custom-mappings) for a particular connection within our UI.
This feature allows incoming mParticle events to be mapped to known Snapchat event types, including with specific attributes and outgoing parameters.

The following Snapchat events support the properties `description` and `event_tag`. Additional supported properties are listed after each event.

* `ACHIEVEMENT_UNLOCKED`
* `ADD_BILLING`
* `ADD_CART`:  `item_category`, `item_ids`, `number_items`, `price`, `currency`
* `ADD_TO_WISHLIST`
* `AD_CLICK`
* `AD_VIEW`
* `APP_INSTALL`
* `APP_OPEN`
* `COMPLETE_TUTORIAL`
* `INVITE`
* `LEVEL_COMPLETE`: `level`
* `LIST_VIEW`
* `LOGIN`
* `PAGE_VIEW`
* `PURCHASE`:  `item_category`, `item_ids`, `number_items`, `price`, `currency`, `transaction_id`
* `RATE`
* `RESERVE`
* `SAVE`
* `SEARCH`: `search_string`
* `SHARE`
* `SIGN_UP`: `sign_up_method`
* `SPENT_CREDITS`
* `START_CHECKOUT`: `number_items`, `price`, `currency`
* `START_TRIAL`
* `SUBSCRIBE`
* `VIEW_CONTENT`: `number_items`, `price`, `currency`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_1`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_2`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_3`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_4`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_5`

Custom events support all properties.

### Additional Features

##### iOS14 ATT Authorization Status

For events originating from iOS with version 14.5 or greater, ATT Authorization Status is taken into account when determining whether or not to forward IDFA.

To specify ATT Authorization Status for a given user on an incoming event batch, reference our [ATT Authorization Status](/developers/sdk/ios/ios14/#implementation-guide) guide.

##### Custom Flags

For `WEB` events, an optional [Custom Flag](/developers/server/json-reference/#custom_flags) can be specified on each valid incoming event. It represents the web page where the event took place, and must be a complete URL -- including protocol (for example, `https://`).
- The flag should be specified with the following key: `SnapchatConversions.PageUrl`.
- The `page_url` custom flag is deprecated, and should no longer be used.

mParticle looks for this value to include in outgoing events to Snapchat.

##### Deduplication

The Snapchat Conversions API includes [Deduplication Support](https://marketingapi.snapchat.com/docs/conversion.html#deduplication) through the `client_dedup_id` field, based on a 48 hour window as per Snapchat. This field can be used to account for both single source and multisource redundancy.

###### Multichannel Deduplication

As per their docs, Snapchat recommends that customers send in redundant event data from multiple locations or integrations (e.g. mParticle and another means of uploading to Snapchat Conversions). This introduces the problem of multichannel redundancy, where you don't want duplicate events sent from different integrations to be counted as distinct events.

To accommodate that, Snapchat supports multichannel deduplication. If two events, regardless of where they were uploaded from, have the same `client_dedup_id`, Snapchat will know to only count one of them.

To that end, mParticle allows customers to specify this value on incoming events which we'll then forward along to Snapchat. To do so, the field can be specified like so:
- For all supported event types _except_ `CommerceEvents`, an optional [Custom Flag](/developers/server/json-reference/#custom_flags) can be specified: `SnapchatConversions.ClientDedupId`.
- For `CommerceEvents`, each constituent `product` is forwarded as a distinct event to Snapchat. As such, any value for `SnapchatConversions.ClientDedupId` needs to be specified at the product-level as a [product attribute](/developers/server/json-reference/#product).

###### Single Channel Deduplication

If the `client_dedup_id` isn't specified by the customer for multichannel redundancy, mParticle will set the field on outgoing events to facilitate single-channel deduplication.
If so, the `client_dedup_id` field is set according to the given event's unique ID field.
- NOTE: For `CommerceEvents` that include multiple products, a unique index is appended onto the event's ID such that each outgoing product event includes a unique, deterministic value for `client_dedup_id`.

##### Historical Events

The [Snapchat Conversions API Guide](https://marketingapi.snapchat.com/docs/conversion.html) notes that events older than 28 days will be rejected.

### Additional Mappings

mParticle sends a variety of user data fields to Snapchat for advanced matching.

| mParticle Field                                                                               | Snapchat Field        | Description                                                                | 
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| app_info.os                                                                                   | event_conversion_type | Required. Either `WEB`, `MOBILE_APP`, or `OFFLINE`                         | 
| event_type                                                                                    | event_type            | Required. Set depending on the incoming event type.                        |
| timestamp_unixtime_ms                                                                         | timestamp             | Required. Event timestamp. This must be in millisecond resolution (ex.1455236520490) |
| user_identities.email                                                                         | hashed_email          | Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized email. Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent are rejected. |
| user_identities.mobile_number, user_identities.phone_number_2, user_identities.phone_number_3 | hashed_phone_number   | Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized phone number. Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent are rejected. |
| ip                                                                                            | hashed_ip_address     | Lowercase SHA256 hash of the IP address associated with the event batch. Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent are rejected. |
| device_info.http_header_user_agent                                                            | user_agent            | The user agent associated with the event batch.                            | Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent will be rejected. |
| device_info.ios_advertising_id, device_info.android_advertising_id                            | hashed_mobile_ad_id   | Optional. Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized MAID (IDFA or AAID).         |
| device_info.ios_idfv                                                                          | hashed_idfv           | Optional. Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized IDFV.                          |

## Settings

### Validation

After you save or update a Snapchat Conversions connection, mParticle verifies the provided setting information and makes an API call to validate it for consistency.
If there's any inconsistency between the API token and Snap App ID or Pixel ID, an error is displayed to prompt the user to verify and try again.

### Configuration Settings

The following settings are all required, and all `string` data type.

| Setting Name          | Encrypted | Description  |
|-----------------------|-----------|--------------|
| Conversions API Token | True      | Default is null. Long-lived token used by Snapchat for authentication.                                                                                                                      |
| Snap App ID           | False     | Default is null. The Snap App ID associated with your app (a unique code generated in Snap Ads Manager and included in your MMP dashboard). Example: `07b517bb-9cdb-42ef-ba77-9dd9a9eb2dc1` |
| Phone Number          | False     | Default is MobileNumber. The mParticle User Identity type to forward as a `hashed_phone_number` to Snapchat.                                                                                |

### Connection Settings

The following settings are all `string` data type.

| Setting Name    | Platform        | Description                                                                                                                                |
|-----------------|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Apple App Id    | iOS             | Required. The unique iOS App Id assigned to a given Snap App. It should be numeric. Example: `447188370`                                             |
| Android App URL | Android         | Required. The unique Android App URL assigned to a given Snap App. It should be a human interpretable string.  Example: `com.snapchat.android`       |
| App Id          | Data feeds      | Optional. The iOS App ID or Android App URL assigned to a given Snap app. If set, don't set Pixel ID. Example: `447188370` or `com.snapchat.android` |
| Pixel Id        | Web, data feeds | Optional for data feeds, required for Web. The Pixel ID for the Ad Account in question. Example: `f5932083-b4da-436e-b63c-94b659dde332`              |

Commit message:

Add Snapchat CAPI email type setting (#2160)

src/pages/integrations/snapchat-conversions/event/index.md, after:

---
title: Event
---

<aside class="warning">This integration replaces the deprecated <a href="https://docs.mparticle.com/integrations/snapchat/event/">Snapchat Event</a> integration, which won't receive future updates. If you are creating a new integration, use this module.</aside>

The [Snapchat Conversion API](https://marketingapi.snapchat.com/docs/conversion.html) integration is a server-to-server integration that allows advertisers to pass web, app, and offline events from mParticle directly to Snap. Data shared through the Snapchat Conversions API is processed similarly to events passed through the Snap Pixel or App Ads Kit (SDK). By passing events, advertisers can access post-view and post-swipe campaign reporting to measure performance and incrementality. Depending on the data shared and timeliness of integration, it’s also possible to use events passed through the Conversions API for campaign optimization, ad targeting and measurement of conversions that resulted from your Snapchat campaigns.

**Benefits**:

* **Privacy at its core**: Conversions API is designed and built with privacy in mind. When implemented, the Conversions API will give you control over what and when you share data.

* **Stronger optimization**: Data that Snapchat receives from the Conversions API will help to better inform the optimization and delivery of your campaigns, to drive more efficient cost per action.
* **Robust targeting**: Conversions API will allow you to populate first-party custom audiences in real-time, which you can use to create Lookalikes from, or re-engage with your existing customers.

* **Improved measurement**: Better understand the results that your campaigns are driving across all channels through a single solution. Conversions API will even allow you to unlock more sophisticated forms of incrementally measurement such as Conversion Lift.


## Prerequisites

**Conversions API Token**: This is Snap’s new static long lived token used for authentication. To find your Conversions API Token, go to the Business Details view on your Snap dashboard. You will see a section called Conversions API Tokens. Please note that you must be an Organization Admin to view this section of the page.

![Snapchat Conversions API Tokens](/images/snapchat-capi-token.png)

**Snap App ID**: In order to forward any events, you will need your Snap App ID. To find your Snap App ID, go to the Apps view on your Snap Ads dashboard. Click on an App to see the App Details view. Your Snap App ID is labeled App ID.

**iOS App ID**: When setting up an iOS connection to Snap, you will need your iOS App ID. To find your iOS App ID, go to the Apps view on your Snap Ads dashboard. Click on an App to see the App Details view. Your iOS App ID is labeled iOS App ID.

**Android App URL**: When setting up an Android connection to Snap, you will need your Android App URL. To find your Android App URL, go to the Apps view on your Snap Ads dashboard. Click on an App to see the App Details view. Your Android App URL is labeled Android App URL.

**Pixel ID**: When setting up a Web connection to Snap, you will need your Pixel ID. To find your Pixel ID, go to the Events Manager view on your Snap Ads dashboard. You will see your Pixel’s name directly underneath its ID.

## Supported Inputs

* iOS
* Android
* Web
* Data Feeds

NOTE:
* Events originating from iOS or Android will be forwarded to Snapchat as `MOBILE_WEB` events.
* Events originating from Web will be forwarded to Snapchat as `WEB` events.
* Events originating from a Data Feed will be forwarded to Snapchat as `OFFLINE` events, since they aren't strictly associated with a device.

## Supported Identifiers

* Email Address
* Mobile Number, Phone Number 2, Phone Number 3
* iOS - IDFA and IDFV
* Android - Google Advertising ID

## Supported Event Types

The following set of mParticle [events](/developers/server/json-reference/#events) are supported by this integration.

* Application State Transition
* Commerce Event
* Custom Event
* Screen View

### Standard Event Mappings

mParticle supports standard event mappings for the following Snapchat event types:

| Snapchat Event    | mParticle Event                                                                                                                                       |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `APP_INSTALL`     | Application State Transition with `application_transition_type` as `application_initialized` and `is_first_run` as `true` and `is_upgrade` as `false` |
| `APP_OPEN`        | Application State Transition with `application_transition_type` as `application_foreground`                                                           |
| `AD_CLICK`        | Commerce with `click` promotion action.                                                                                                               |
| `AD_VIEW`         | Commerce with `view` promotion action.                                                                                                                |
| `ADD_CART`        | Commerce with `add_to_cart` product action.                                                                                                           |
| `ADD_TO_WISHLIST` | Commerce with `add_to_wishlist` product action.                                                                                                       |
| `PURCHASE`        | Commerce with `purchase` product action. Refunds are not natively supported by Snap.                                                                  |
| `START_CHECKOUT`  | Commerce with `checkout` product action.                                                                                                              |
| `VIEW_CONTENT`    | Commerce with `view_detail` product action.                                                                                                           |
| `PAGE_VIEW`       | Screen View                                                                                                                                           |

Incoming Commerce events to mParticle are expanded before being sent out to Snapchat.
Example: One incoming `purchase` Commerce event to mParticle with three products will go out to Snapchat as three `PURCHASE` events.

To support refund events, Snapchat recommends using our [Custom Event Mappings](/integrations/snapchat-conversions/event/#custom-event-mappings) to set up one of Snapchat's five custom event types and passing the refund amount as its price.

### Custom Event Mappings

In order to support alternative Snapchat event types that don't map one-to-one with mParticle events, we allow customers to manually configure [Custom Mappings](/guides/platform-guide/connections/#custom-mappings) for a particular connection within our UI.
This feature allows incoming mParticle events to be mapped to known Snapchat event types, including with specific attributes and outgoing parameters.

The following Snapchat events support the properties `description` and `event_tag`. Additional supported properties are listed after each event.

* `ACHIEVEMENT_UNLOCKED`
* `ADD_BILLING`
* `ADD_CART`:  `item_category`, `item_ids`, `number_items`, `price`, `currency`
* `ADD_TO_WISHLIST`
* `AD_CLICK`
* `AD_VIEW`
* `APP_INSTALL`
* `APP_OPEN`
* `COMPLETE_TUTORIAL`
* `INVITE`
* `LEVEL_COMPLETE`: `level`
* `LIST_VIEW`
* `LOGIN`
* `PAGE_VIEW`
* `PURCHASE`:  `item_category`, `item_ids`, `number_items`, `price`, `currency`, `transaction_id`
* `RATE`
* `RESERVE`
* `SAVE`
* `SEARCH`: `search_string`
* `SHARE`
* `SIGN_UP`: `sign_up_method`
* `SPENT_CREDITS`
* `START_CHECKOUT`: `number_items`, `price`, `currency`
* `START_TRIAL`
* `SUBSCRIBE`
* `VIEW_CONTENT`: `number_items`, `price`, `currency`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_1`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_2`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_3`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_4`
* `CUSTOM_EVENT_5`

Custom events support all properties.

### Additional Features

##### iOS14 ATT Authorization Status

For events originating from iOS with version 14.5 or greater, ATT Authorization Status is taken into account when determining whether or not to forward IDFA.

To specify ATT Authorization Status for a given user on an incoming event batch, reference our [ATT Authorization Status](/developers/sdk/ios/ios14/#implementation-guide) guide.

##### Custom Flags

For `WEB` events, an optional [Custom Flag](/developers/server/json-reference/#custom_flags) can be specified on each valid incoming event. It represents the web page where the event took place, and must be a complete URL -- including protocol (for example, `https://`).
- The flag should be specified with the following key: `SnapchatConversions.PageUrl`.
- The `page_url` custom flag is deprecated, and should no longer be used.

mParticle looks for this value to include in outgoing events to Snapchat.

##### Deduplication

The Snapchat Conversions API includes [Deduplication Support](https://marketingapi.snapchat.com/docs/conversion.html#deduplication) through the `client_dedup_id` field, based on a 48 hour window as per Snapchat. This field can be used to account for both single source and multisource redundancy.

###### Multichannel Deduplication

As per their docs, Snapchat recommends that customers send in redundant event data from multiple locations or integrations (e.g. mParticle and another means of uploading to Snapchat Conversions). This introduces the problem of multichannel redundancy, where you don't want duplicate events sent from different integrations to be counted as distinct events.

To accommodate that, Snapchat supports multichannel deduplication. If two events, regardless of where they were uploaded from, have the same `client_dedup_id`, Snapchat will know to only count one of them.

To that end, mParticle allows customers to specify this value on incoming events which we'll then forward along to Snapchat. To do so, the field can be specified like so:
- For all supported event types _except_ `CommerceEvents`, an optional [Custom Flag](/developers/server/json-reference/#custom_flags) can be specified: `SnapchatConversions.ClientDedupId`.
- For `CommerceEvents`, each constituent `product` is forwarded as a distinct event to Snapchat. As such, any value for `SnapchatConversions.ClientDedupId` needs to be specified at the product-level as a [product attribute](/developers/server/json-reference/#product).

###### Single Channel Deduplication

If the `client_dedup_id` isn't specified by the customer for multichannel redundancy, mParticle will set the field on outgoing events to facilitate single-channel deduplication.
If so, the `client_dedup_id` field is set according to the given event's unique ID field.
- NOTE: For `CommerceEvents` that include multiple products, a unique index is appended onto the event's ID such that each outgoing product event includes a unique, deterministic value for `client_dedup_id`.

##### Historical Events

The [Snapchat Conversions API Guide](https://marketingapi.snapchat.com/docs/conversion.html) notes that events older than 28 days will be rejected.

### Additional Mappings

mParticle sends a variety of user data fields to Snapchat for advanced matching.

| mParticle Field                                                                               | Snapchat Field        | Description                                                                | 
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| app_info.os                                                                                   | event_conversion_type | Required. Either `WEB`, `MOBILE_APP`, or `OFFLINE`                         | 
| event_type                                                                                    | event_type            | Required. Set depending on the incoming event type.                        |
| timestamp_unixtime_ms                                                                         | timestamp             | Required. Event timestamp. This must be in millisecond resolution (ex.1455236520490) |
| user_identities.email                                                                         | hashed_email          | Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized email. Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent are rejected. |
| user_identities.mobile_number, user_identities.phone_number_2, user_identities.phone_number_3 | hashed_phone_number   | Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized phone number. Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent are rejected. |
| ip                                                                                            | hashed_ip_address     | Lowercase SHA256 hash of the IP address associated with the event batch. Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent are rejected. |
| device_info.http_header_user_agent                                                            | user_agent            | The user agent associated with the event batch.                            | Events without either email, phone number, or IP & user agent will be rejected. |
| device_info.ios_advertising_id, device_info.android_advertising_id                            | hashed_mobile_ad_id   | Optional. Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized MAID (IDFA or AAID).         |
| device_info.ios_idfv                                                                          | hashed_idfv           | Optional. Lowercase SHA256 hash of normalized IDFV.                          |

## Settings

### Validation

After you save or update a Snapchat Conversions connection, mParticle verifies the provided setting information and makes an API call to validate it for consistency.
If there's any inconsistency between the API token and Snap App ID or Pixel ID, an error is displayed to prompt the user to verify and try again.

### Configuration Settings

The following settings are all required, and all `string` data type.

| Setting Name          | Encrypted | Description  |
|-----------------------|-----------|--------------|
| Conversions API Token | True      | Default is null. Long-lived token used by Snapchat for authentication.                                                                                                                      |
| Snap App ID           | False     | Default is null. The Snap App ID associated with your app (a unique code generated in Snap Ads Manager and included in your MMP dashboard). Example: `07b517bb-9cdb-42ef-ba77-9dd9a9eb2dc1` |
| Phone Number          | False     | Default is MobileNumber. The mParticle User Identity type to forward as a `hashed_phone_number` to Snapchat.                                                                                |

### Connection Settings

| Setting Name    |  Data Type  | Platform        | Description                                                                                                                                |
|-----------------|-------------|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Apple App Id    | `string`    | iOS             | Required. The unique iOS App Id assigned to a given Snap App. It should be numeric. Example: `447188370`                                             |
| Android App URL | `string`    | Android         | Required. The unique Android App URL assigned to a given Snap App. It should be a human interpretable string.  Example: `com.snapchat.android`       |
| App Id          | `string`    | Data feeds      | Optional. The iOS App ID or Android App URL assigned to a given Snap app. If set, don't set Pixel ID. Example: `447188370` or `com.snapchat.android` |
| Pixel Id        | `string`    | Web, data feeds | Optional for data feeds, required for Web. The Pixel ID for the Ad Account in question. Example: `f5932083-b4da-436e-b63c-94b659dde332`              |
| Email Type      | `enum`      | Web, data feeds | Required. The mParticle User Identity type to forward as an Email to Snap App. The email user identity will be hashed before forwarding to Snapchat, other user identities selected from this dropdown will not be hashed prior to forwarding.                                                                      |
