src/pages/guides/data-subject-requests/index.md, before:

---
title: Data Subject Requests
---
Both the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) define that consumers/data subjects have the right to view, update, extract and delete data that controllers & businesses have saved on them. When a consumer/data subject exercises their rights, they create a data subject request (DSR). This page will guide you through mParticle's support for handling DSRs for both GDPR and CCPA.

This page does not provide legal advice, only a description of how to use mParticle's compliance-related features. The information provided here is solely for understanding and using mParticle features and is not intended to be legally compliant or specific enough for compliance.

This document adopts the GDPR-style language and terminology for simplicity.

mParticle has a distinct set of functionality to help you comply with the compliance requirements around consent and data sale opt out, read more here: [Consent Management](/guides/consent-management).

## Roles

The GDPR defines three entities involved in data collection, with different rights and responsibilities:

* Data Subject - A person whose data is gathered. Generally a user of your app.
* Data Controller - An entity gathering the data. mParticle provides tools for Data Controllers to fulfill their obligations under the GDPR.
* Data Processor - An entity that handles or stores data for the Data Controller. Under the GDPR, mParticle acts as a Data Processor.

Similarly, the CCPA defines:
* Consumer - Similar to the GDPR's definition of data subject, geographic requirements notwithstanding.
* Businesses - Similar to the GDPR's definition of data controller.
* Service provider - Similar to GDPR's definition of data processor.

## Rights of Data Subjects

The GDPR defines some rights of Data Subjects, including:

* The right to have data concerning them [erased](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-17-gdpr/). Also known as the 'right to be forgotten'.
* The right to [access](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-15-gdpr/) data concerning them.
* The right to [portability](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-20-gdpr/) of data concerning them, for transfer to another controller.

The CCPA defines that consumers have rights of:
* The right to request the data saved concerning them.
* The right to request any data collected from the consumer be deleted.

## OpenDSR Request Framework

mParticle is a collaborator on the [OpenDSR framework](https://github.com/opengdpr/OpenDSR/), which provides a simple format for Data Controllers and Data Processors to collaborate towards compliance with requests from their Data Subjects to honor the above rights. This framework was formerly known as OpenGDPR; it was renamed in early 2020 to include CCPA support.

To find out more about OpenDSR, read the full spec on the [Github page](https://github.com/opengdpr/OpenDSR).

mParticle's OpenDSR implementation handles three types of DSRs: "Erasure", "Access" and "Portability".

<aside>Note that this documentation only covers how mParticle's role as a Data Processor is fulfilled. Most Data Controllers have more than one Data Processor and will need to work with all of them to fulfill Data Subject requests.</aside>

## General Request Workflow

Each DSR follows the same basic workflow:

1. The Data Subject submits a DSR to the Data Controller.

1. The Data Controller must log, authenticate and verify the request. If they choose to accept the request, the Data Controller forwards a request to mParticle in its role as a Data Processor. The request provides:
    * One or more identities for the Data Subject;
    * The type of request: "Erasure", "Access" or "Portability";
    * The time the Data Subject submitted the request;
    * An optional list of Status Callback URLs.

1. On receipt of the request, mParticle sets the status of the request to "Pending" and sends a status callback request to all URLs listed in the original request. This callback includes an expected completion time for the request, which is calculated as: the time it will be scheduled for processing (details below) plus 48 hours (to ensure the job completes in time).

1. The Data Controller can check the status of the request at any time.

1. When the request is complete, mParticle sends a status callback request to all URLs listed in the original request. For Erasure requests, this callback will simply confirm that the request has been fulfilled. For Access and Portability requests, a download link will be provided.

1. For Access and Portability requests, the download link remains valid for 7 days. Attempting to access the download link after that time will result in a `410 Gone` HTTP response.

This workflow can be managed in mParticle UI or programmatically via the [OpenDSR API](/developers/dsr-api).

## Identifying affected user data

mParticle stores data against user profiles, each identified by an mParticle ID (MPID). To respond to DSRs, mParticle first matches identities in the DSR against observed user profiles. This is handled the same way as mParticle's regular IDSync process: provided identities are resolved to MPIDs to identify affected user data.

All DSR requests are scoped to a single workspace by API authentication. If you need to apply a DSR to multiple workspaces, please submit it within each workspace.  


## Data Subject Request Settings
To get started, enable GDPR and/or CCPA compliance features on your workspace from **Workspace Settings** > **Workspace** > **Regulation**. This will allow you to see the DSR UI. mParticle will honor all requests received via API even with these features disabled.

You have the option to include a copy of the live user profile in access/portability requests. Navigate to **Privacy** > **Settings** to include a copy of the users profile with GDPR and/or CCPA DSRs. This is for clients whose privacy teams determine that this is required for compliance. The profiles will include: devices, identities, audience memberships, user attributes and calculated attributes. By default, profiles are not included.

<aside>To see these privacy pages you must be in a user role of "Compliance Admin" or "Compliance".</aside>

![](/images/privacy-settings.png)

### Develop a strategy for accepting Data Subject Requests

As a Data Processor, mParticle will match user profiles for a Data Subject Request based on any identities we are given. As a Data Controller, it is your responsibility to determine how to accept and forward Data Subject Requests in order to best meet your GDPR responsibilities and manage risk. This decision should be managed in conjunction with your Identity Strategy.

You also have the option of using the [Identity API](/developers/idsync/) to identify for yourself the MPIDs you wish to include in the request and submitting them directly, rather than letting mParticle match IDs for you.

Be sure to consult your internal privacy and compliance experts when determining your strategy for accepting and forwarding Data Subject Requests.

## Supported Request Types

### Erasure

Erasure requests are handled as follows:

1. mParticle identifies the MPIDs that match the request and creates an erasure job containing the MPIDs for erasure.
2. Each Monday at 12:30UTC, all jobs created in the previous 7 days are added to a batch. After the batch is created, jobs can be removed from the batch, but no additional jobs can be added.
3. 7 days after a batch is created, all jobs are run, deleting all data in mParticle associated with each MPID in each job.
4. For each request, mParticle sends a callback to any specified Callback URLs, indicating that the request has been completed.

Note that there will be at least 7 and up to 14 days between mParticle receiving a request and deletion occurring. This delay provides an opportunity to cancel a pending deletion request before it is carried out.

#### What data is deleted?

In addition to data directly stored by mParticle, such as historical event batches, audience data and profiles, mParticle will also delete data in your managed Data Warehouse integrations:
* Amazon Redshift
* Google BigQuery
* Snowflake

These methods access data indexed for GDPR starting on May 25, 2018. If you need to affect historical data, please contact your success manager.

We cannot delete data that has already been forwarded to a partner, via an event or audience integration.

A delete request will also not prevent additional data concerning the subject from being received and processed by mParticle. If the data subject wishes to prevent all future data processing, they will likely need to take additional steps, for example, ceasing to use your service/app.

### Access / Portability

Access and Portability requests are handled exactly the same way, as follows:

1. mParticle identifies the MPIDs that match the request.
2. Just after midnight each Monday and Thursday, mParticle searches for data related to each MPID, including the user profile and historical event batches. Inferred data, such as audience memberships, is not included.
3. mParticle compiles the data into a single text file.
4. mParticle sends a callback to any specified Callback URLs indicating that the request has been completed. The callback will contain a secure download link to the text file containing the Subject's data.

#### Portability Response Format

The data gathered in response to a Portability Request will be delivered in a `.zip` folder containing many `.jsonl` files ([JSON Lines](http://jsonlines.org/) format).  The zip contains:

* `profile.jsonl`: A file that contains the live profile at the time of the request. This includes data like: device identities, user identities, audiences and user attributes.
* one or more additional `.jsonl` files: These results are split into many files to avoid a single, large file to make them easier to transmit and process. Controllers are encouraged to re-process the files as they see fit. These files contain the event batches sent to mParticle. Each line of the data files represents a complete mParticle event batch. See our [JSON Reference](/developers/server/json-reference) for a guide to the event batch format.

Note that if no records can be found matching the identities in the request, the request for the zip file will intentionally return a `404` error.

A sample portability response can be downloaded [here](/downloads/portability-response-sample.zip).

## Managing Data Subject Requests in the mParticle Dashboard

In addition to the OpenGDPR API, users with the [Compliance role](/guides/platform-guide/users#roles) can create, delete and monitor DSRs directly in the mParticle Dashboard.

<aside>To see these privacy pages you must be in a role of "Compliance Admin" or "Compliance".</aside>


![](/images/dsr-ui.png)

Commit message:

highlighting expected times for dsr requests (#939)

src/pages/guides/data-subject-requests/index.md, after:

---
title: Data Subject Requests
---
Both the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) define that consumers/data subjects have the right to view, update, extract and delete data that controllers & businesses have saved on them. When a consumer/data subject exercises their rights, they create a data subject request (DSR). This page will guide you through mParticle's support for handling DSRs for both GDPR and CCPA.

This page does not provide legal advice, only a description of how to use mParticle's compliance-related features. The information provided here is solely for understanding and using mParticle features and is not intended to be legally compliant or specific enough for compliance.

This document adopts the GDPR-style language and terminology for simplicity.

mParticle has a distinct set of functionality to help you comply with the compliance requirements around consent and data sale opt out, read more here: [Consent Management](/guides/consent-management).

## Roles

The GDPR defines three entities involved in data collection, with different rights and responsibilities:

* Data Subject - A person whose data is gathered. Generally a user of your app.
* Data Controller - An entity gathering the data. mParticle provides tools for Data Controllers to fulfill their obligations under the GDPR.
* Data Processor - An entity that handles or stores data for the Data Controller. Under the GDPR, mParticle acts as a Data Processor.

Similarly, the CCPA defines:
* Consumer - Similar to the GDPR's definition of data subject, geographic requirements notwithstanding.
* Businesses - Similar to the GDPR's definition of data controller.
* Service provider - Similar to GDPR's definition of data processor.

## Rights of Data Subjects

The GDPR defines some rights of Data Subjects, including:

* The right to have data concerning them [erased](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-17-gdpr/). Also known as the 'right to be forgotten'.
* The right to [access](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-15-gdpr/) data concerning them.
* The right to [portability](https://gdpr-info.eu/art-20-gdpr/) of data concerning them, for transfer to another controller.

The CCPA defines that consumers have rights of:
* The right to request the data saved concerning them.
* The right to request any data collected from the consumer be deleted.

## OpenDSR Request Framework

mParticle is a collaborator on the [OpenDSR framework](https://github.com/opengdpr/OpenDSR/), which provides a simple format for Data Controllers and Data Processors to collaborate towards compliance with requests from their Data Subjects to honor the above rights. This framework was formerly known as OpenGDPR; it was renamed in early 2020 to include CCPA support.

To find out more about OpenDSR, read the full spec on the [Github page](https://github.com/opengdpr/OpenDSR).

mParticle's OpenDSR implementation handles three types of DSRs: "Erasure", "Access" and "Portability".

<aside>Note that this documentation only covers how mParticle's role as a Data Processor is fulfilled. Most Data Controllers have more than one Data Processor and will need to work with all of them to fulfill Data Subject requests.</aside>

## General Request Workflow

Each DSR follows the same basic workflow:

1. The Data Subject submits a DSR to the Data Controller.

1. The Data Controller must log, authenticate and verify the request. If they choose to accept the request, the Data Controller forwards a request to mParticle in its role as a Data Processor. The request provides:
    * One or more identities for the Data Subject;
    * The type of request: "Erasure", "Access" or "Portability";
    * The time the Data Subject submitted the request;
    * An optional list of Status Callback URLs.

1. On receipt of the request, mParticle sets the status of the request to "Pending" and sends a status callback request to all URLs listed in the original request. This callback includes an expected completion time for the request, which is calculated as: the time it will be scheduled for processing (details below) plus 48 hours (to ensure the job completes in time).

1. The Data Controller can check the status of the request at any time.

1. When the request is complete, mParticle sends a status callback request to all URLs listed in the original request. For Erasure requests, this callback will simply confirm that the request has been fulfilled. For Access and Portability requests, a download link will be provided.

1. For Access and Portability requests, the download link remains valid for 7 days. Attempting to access the download link after that time will result in a `410 Gone` HTTP response.

This workflow can be managed in mParticle UI or programmatically via the [OpenDSR API](/developers/dsr-api).

## Identifying affected user data

mParticle stores data against user profiles, each identified by an mParticle ID (MPID). To respond to DSRs, mParticle first matches identities in the DSR against observed user profiles. This is handled the same way as mParticle's regular IDSync process: provided identities are resolved to MPIDs to identify affected user data.

All DSR requests are scoped to a single workspace by API authentication. If you need to apply a DSR to multiple workspaces, please submit it within each workspace.  


## Data Subject Request Settings
To get started, enable GDPR and/or CCPA compliance features on your workspace from **Workspace Settings** > **Workspace** > **Regulation**. This will allow you to see the DSR UI. mParticle will honor all requests received via API even with these features disabled.

You have the option to include a copy of the live user profile in access/portability requests. Navigate to **Privacy** > **Settings** to include a copy of the users profile with GDPR and/or CCPA DSRs. This is for clients whose privacy teams determine that this is required for compliance. The profiles will include: devices, identities, audience memberships, user attributes and calculated attributes. By default, profiles are not included.

<aside>To see these privacy pages you must be in a user role of "Compliance Admin" or "Compliance".</aside>

![](/images/privacy-settings.png)

### Develop a strategy for accepting Data Subject Requests

As a Data Processor, mParticle will match user profiles for a Data Subject Request based on any identities we are given. As a Data Controller, it is your responsibility to determine how to accept and forward Data Subject Requests in order to best meet your GDPR responsibilities and manage risk. This decision should be managed in conjunction with your Identity Strategy.

You also have the option of using the [Identity API](/developers/idsync/) to identify for yourself the MPIDs you wish to include in the request and submitting them directly, rather than letting mParticle match IDs for you.

Be sure to consult your internal privacy and compliance experts when determining your strategy for accepting and forwarding Data Subject Requests.

## Supported Request Types

### Erasure

Erasure requests are handled as follows:

1. mParticle identifies the MPIDs that match the request and creates an erasure job containing the MPIDs for erasure.
2. Each Monday at 12:30UTC, all jobs created in the previous 7 days are added to a batch. After the batch is created, jobs can be removed from the batch, but no additional jobs can be added.
3. 7 days after a batch is created, all jobs are run, deleting all data in mParticle associated with each MPID in each job.
4. For each request, mParticle sends a callback to any specified Callback URLs, indicating that the request has been completed.


<aside>
Erasure requests are processed between 7 and up to 14 days after being received by mParticle. This delay provides an opportunity to cancel a pending deletion request before it is carried out.
</aside>

#### What data is deleted?

In addition to data directly stored by mParticle, such as historical event batches, audience data and profiles, mParticle will also delete data in your managed Data Warehouse integrations:
* Amazon Redshift
* Google BigQuery
* Snowflake

These methods access data indexed for GDPR starting on May 25, 2018. If you need to affect historical data, please contact your success manager.

We cannot delete data that has already been forwarded to a partner, via an event or audience integration.

A delete request will also not prevent additional data concerning the subject from being received and processed by mParticle. If the data subject wishes to prevent all future data processing, they will likely need to take additional steps, for example, ceasing to use your service/app.

### Access / Portability

Access and Portability requests are handled exactly the same way, as follows:

1. mParticle identifies the MPIDs that match the request.
2. Just after midnight each Monday and Thursday, mParticle searches for data related to each MPID, including the user profile and historical event batches. Inferred data, such as audience memberships, is not included.
3. mParticle compiles the data into a single text file.
4. mParticle sends a callback to any specified Callback URLs indicating that the request has been completed. The callback will contain a secure download link to the text file containing the Subject's data.


<aside>
Access / Portability requests are processed every 3 days on the start of Mondays and Thursdays.
</aside>

#### Portability Response Format

The data gathered in response to a Portability Request will be delivered in a `.zip` folder containing many `.jsonl` files ([JSON Lines](http://jsonlines.org/) format).  The zip contains:

* `profile.jsonl`: A file that contains the live profile at the time of the request. This includes data like: device identities, user identities, audiences and user attributes.
* one or more additional `.jsonl` files: These results are split into many files to avoid a single, large file to make them easier to transmit and process. Controllers are encouraged to re-process the files as they see fit. These files contain the event batches sent to mParticle. Each line of the data files represents a complete mParticle event batch. See our [JSON Reference](/developers/server/json-reference) for a guide to the event batch format.

Note that if no records can be found matching the identities in the request, the request for the zip file will intentionally return a `404` error.

A sample portability response can be downloaded [here](/downloads/portability-response-sample.zip).

## Managing Data Subject Requests in the mParticle Dashboard

In addition to the OpenGDPR API, users with the [Compliance role](/guides/platform-guide/users#roles) can create, delete and monitor DSRs directly in the mParticle Dashboard.

<aside>To see these privacy pages you must be in a role of "Compliance Admin" or "Compliance".</aside>


![](/images/dsr-ui.png)
